# June 17, 2021 HPC Carpentry Coordination Meeting

## Time and Venue

This "meeting" comprises two parts, to improve coverage for our global
community: 1100 UTC and 2200 UTC. Volunteers willing to host additional
sessions should reach out on the
[Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com#hpc-carpentry) or the
[mailing list ](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc) to notify
potential participants.

- Click to convert
  [11:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination%2C+1200+UTC&iso=20210415T12&p1=1440)
  to your local time
- Click to convert
  [22:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2200+UTC&iso=20210520T22&p1=%3A)
  to your local time

:::success
[**_Click Here to Join the Meeting!_**](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx)

The venue is [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx).

:::spoiler You can also call in by phone: Call +1 234-405-0205 PIN: 662 051
554# To view more phone numbers, click this link:
<https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5> :::

:::info **Shared Calendar for HPC Carpentry**

If you have not already, please add the
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)
to your scheduling app so that these are not a surprise. You may also import
the
[ical](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/files/6497063/revised_20210517.ics.zip)
file directly into your calendar, though this will not receive updates in case
of scheduling upsets. :::

## Agenda

See the
[previous coordination CodiMD](https://codimd.carpentries.org/Ylje7tzDSxKOAfhMItAxLw?both).
See also the
[accepted process proposal](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng).

### Governance

- Curriculum Mindset feedback. See the
  [issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/46) (NB meeting
  date is wrong in the issue.) The idea is to "zoom out" from the minutiae of
  lesson development and revisit our overall strategy and its alignment with
  Carpentries priorities.
- Milestones -- the planned follow-up from the Milestone conversation in April
  was that our top priority should be learner feedback on our lessons --- this
  is the only "unchecked box" for moving the HPC Intro lesson to Carpentries
  "Beta" status. Anyone with feedback to share should bring it to this item!

### SC21

The annual ACM SC21 conference is currently planned to be an in-person event
Nov. 14-19, 2021, in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. There are some
[submission deadlines](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/submission-deadlines/)
coming up in early August that are likely of interest to us.

- Birds of a Feather (Bof):
  [Guidance](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/birds-feather-submissions/#section1),
  submissions close Aug. 6, 2021. I think "we" have done something like this
  before, anyone with experience or tips is welcome to share them here! What
  should this look like? A few presentations and then general discussion?
- Research Software Engineers in HPC (thanks to Peter Steinbach for pointing
  this out in the Slack!): [Description](https://us-rse.org/rse-hpc-2021/),
  submissions close Aug. 6, 2021. Many of us fill a role like this in our
  organizations, and the connection between helping scientists deploy their
  workflows and HPC Carpentry seems clear.
- Other SC21 opportunties?

### State of the Sites

- The
  [audience selection](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/54)
  issue remains open on the coordination repo, with lots of valuable feedback.
  Additional discussion may be warranted, this is the slot for that.
- There has been some traffic on the sites, and a few issues have been cleared.
  This is the agenda slot where the community can share ideas for how to
  prioritize existing or new issues.

### Other Business

---

### 1100 UTC session

#### Attending

- Andrew Reid, NIST (he/him)
- Toby Hodges, The Carpentries (he/him)
- Trevor Keller, NIST (they/them)
- Benson Muite
- Alan O'Cais
- Annajiat Alim Rasel
- Sabry Razick (University of Oslo)

### Governance

- Curriculum mindset issue. One takeaway from last time was that we might want
  to narrow down who our target audience is for lessons.

  - Benson: from
    https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/46#issuecomment-845674483,
    it seems like there will be a Pull Request coming that gives a choice of
    examples for the HPC Python lesson
  - Andrew: Seems like things are going towards the creation of a second lesson
    on parallel
  - Alan: we have the starting point for such a lesson already
  - Andrew: tension in how much we expose people to the inner workings of MPI
  - Alan: what about an example with super simple code that only shows what is
    happening on the MPI side
    - (sabry) I like that strategy. Many of our users do run MPI code without
      even knowing what is going on.
  - Benson: hpc-intro has an example of calculating Pi and same code could be
    used for running MPI part. up to the instructor. MPI part could be moved to
    HPC Python lesson.
  - Andrew: is MPI so important that it must be included in intro lesson, or
    can we leave it at the execution of tasks on nodes?
  - Trevor: MPI is still foundational
  - Alan: but there are other options now (like Dask)
  - Benson: Data Carpentry lessons are pretty easy to configure (don't need to
    use site template)
    https://carpentries.github.io/workshop-template/customization/index.htmlBe

  - Audience selection: (Andrew) Can our learners read code? Most basically, do
    our learners get the idea that computers do thing stepwise, and you can
    aggregate the steps, and could make reasonable guesses about e.g. the
    parallel example works?
  - Alan: We shouldn't require this of our learners, the lesson should work for
    people who are unfamiliar with reading code, and we don't want a python or
    programming prerequisites. An opaque parallel application that people just
    run is fine.
  - Toby/Trevor: Mismatching the lesson to the learners will slow you down a
    lot, and impose a high cognitive load on learners. It will detract from our
    focus on cluster operations.
  - Toby: Can see the case for just requiring the shell as this would allow you
    run a (HPC) shell lesson, followed by the HPC intro
  - Trevor: workshop in general can have a programming prerequisite, specific
    lesson can have only a subset of those prereqs. Keeping a finite list of
    lesson prereqs will help define boundaries.
  - Andrew: sounds like we are converging on the idea that an opaque MPI
    example is okay with that.
  - Benson: not sure about this - even with Shell they need to understand the
    concept of a script
  - Alan: `echo hostname` is already in the lesson
  - Benson: if all they do is run a binary I think they are missing an
    important piece
  - Andrew: what if they ran echo hostname, then an opaque binary?
  - Trevor: or a script of a few shell commands?\
  - Benson: we want them to have some idea that when they are running a binary,
    scaling stops at some stage. want them to understand correct estimation and
    requests of resources
  - Andrew: I think they could benefit from something to do some introspection
    on, whether that is a shell script or Python code or something else. If we
    have shell-novice and hpc-novice as a pre-requisite for parallel lesson, we
    could use a simple shell scripting example to demonstrate the concept then
    an opaque binary to show it in a more authentic setting
  - Trevor: if learners do have the prior knowledge of the language they could
    choose to spend some time reviewing the code itsef.
  - Annajiat: delaying the jargon: do the simple example first and dig deeper
    later.
  - Trevor: this also deals with the issue we are having with the current pi
    example.

  - (sabry) I would say someone should not have to learn something else to
    understand what is being presented. If the example is python, then that
    would be self explanatory so learner could focus on what the focus is. i.e
    a person there to learn MPI should not run away by seeing a python file.
    That is why the example is not Fortran, which would do MPI better

Summary: We should require shell-novice as a prerequisite, build on it to
demonstrate parallel launches, and use a blob to see the benefit in a real
calculation, and for scaling. Actual coding in parallel will be in a different
lesson, either hpc-python or parallel-novice or something else, which might
have different/additional preqrequisites.

Action: Review the learner profiles, assess how this impacts our existing
content. - [name=Toby]: if you would like someone to review those re-worked
learner profiles, feel free to assign me as a reviewer on the pull request/ping
me if I cannot be assigned

Action2: Put together a questionnaire for post-workshop surveys for people
using our content. (Alan) What tool? (Toby) Typeform, but maybe not free,
Google forms, issue template? Consensus: Issue template.

### SC21

These opportunities came up on the slack. Some community members are reluctant
to consider an in-person event so soon.

Action: (Andrew and Trevor) Draft a BoF proposal. Andy Turner organized the
SC19 one, C. Koch attended, might have tips. Step 0: Issue on the coordination
repo.

### State of the Sites

(Audience-selection issue largely covered in the governance section.)

### Other business

Alan: Question about timeline for the new lesson templates -- q is for Toby,
but he had left the meeting. (in chat he mentioned late Summer, alpha testing
has finished and was a success)

Sabry: Norwegian partners training for HPC, Sabry suggested porting HPC
Carpentries material. Would like someone to show how to port the materials for
their site, to help with adoption. Brief talk about the community, how our work
can benefit their.

Benson: Will teach an HPC Carpentry workshop for chemists in mid August. Expect
to develop/adapt a short intro to GROMACS

Various other orgs are standing up HPC training, some of them seem to be
duplicating what we are doing -- can we help them? Better outreach? Related to
the Monday activity w/ Sabry. General strategy of outreach and visibility is a
good idea. Maybe a Youtube channel on how to configure our lesson templates?
More/better twitter traffic?

Alan: We have space on the website where we can post info about other lessons.
We can reach out to people doing related activities and get that stuff on our
site.

---

### 2200 UTC session

#### Attending

- Andrew Reid, NIST (he/him)
- Trevor Keller, NIST (they/them)
- Mike Renfro, TN Tech (he)

#### Governance

- Recap of the 1100 UTC session, suggesting that the HPC Intro lesson should
  have Shell Novice as a pre-req, and not go into MPI detals, but only do
  trivial shell-based parallelism, and a scaling study on a more black-box-y
  IPC example, which might be MPI or Dask or something else.
- Mike R indicates he's OK with all of that.

#### SC21

- Still will move on the BoF draft proposal.

#### State of the Sites

- Outreach: Mike can put together an informal request to communities he's in
  contact with, to increase awareness of our effort.
