# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 16 December 2021

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds coworking hours on the first Thursday,
with two time slots intended to provide adequate coverage for our global
constituency. These two meeting times provide the least-painful coverage for
the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica and aboard a space station
are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [12:00 UTC][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
  - _N.B.:_ Shifted +1 hour for standard time!
- [22:00 UTC][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211202T1200&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coworking+Hour+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211202T2200&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coworking+Hour+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/PBTfOMWSS8qscQadOJUGJg?view
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/sPz2XZOSRia4-5Qb36J86g?view
[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord] (prior to the SC21 BoF)
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [Bof Codi][bof-codi]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda:

### On-going: Translating BoF feedback to Issues

General discussion of issues arising from the BoF, and additions or edits to
[what's been captured so far](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/pull/51).
The idea is to get actionable things in to repo issues.

### Moving on Some Issues?

There has been relatively little change to the repos lately, this will be an
opportunity to focus on making some tangible progress in the repos. Like
co-working, even though this is nominally a coordination meeting.

## Earlier Meeting (Africa, Asia, and Europe)

### Participants

- Andrew Reid (he/him) NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), (in-between orgs!)
- Benson Muite
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries

### BoF Feedback:

There is a
[milestone](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1) on the
Coordination Repo which includes several issues related to the BoF Feedback.

For issue #96 (MagicCastle), it's already done: LearnHPC uses MagicCastle.
There are a couple of back-ends you can choose from, the existing LearnHPC only
uses one of them.

For issue #93 (Dask), there is existing content which is notebook-driven from a
JupyterHub notebook, which would be hard to integrate with our existing scheme.
Dask has several components, there's a "Job Queue" that works with a cluster,
which feels like it's in scope for us, but might be hard to adapt to our
scheme, and even if we did, it feels like duplicate effort. The basic Dask
tutorial is centrally maintained by the Dask devs, but the JobQueue one is
community maintained.

For Dask and some of the other material, we can initially point to existing
material, maybe road-test some of the existing tutorials, and re-assess
afterwards to see how much of an investment we want or need to make.

As an aside (from Toby), there are some lessons that use notebooks, but there
is not currently a mature scheme for building an entire lesson that's executed
in a notebook.

- [name=Toby]: here's an example of an Incubator lesson repo that includes
  notebooks https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/SDC-BIDS-IntroMRI and uses
  Binder to deliver them.

There was also BoF interest in Julia. Our community does not know a lot about
this, and existing resources do not seem to be HPC-focused, but some people are
working through this. Julia has challenges in the HPC world with respect to
managing packages, shared installations can be challenging.

- [name=Trevor]: I've run through (and hacked)
  [Julia Novice: Trebuchet](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/julia-novice),
  and it's a relatively fun, low-lift crash course. **_Not_** HPC; we'd have to
  write our own parallel lesson.
  - Julia still has _big new hotness_ energy, even if its framework is unstable
    under the hood, so it behooves us to spend a little time on it.
  - Grand plan: get a solid Python + MPI→π lesson written, then port it to
    Julia.
- [MPITrampoline](https://github.com/eschnett/MPItrampoline): supposedly
  MPI-implementation-agnostic, library-call-intercepting way to reuse MPI code
  with whatever library you have installed?

Clearing-house for HPC educational resources: There is an active group that is
having various calls to try to locate all the resources, and index them to make
them findable and searchable. This is a big job, and it's a moving target, the
level of effort needed to do a decent job is probably very high, and it will
likely duplicate other efforts in the community. What we can and should do is
maintain a complete list of all the material that we use. The problem we should
strive to solve is the content-selection problem for HPC Carpentry workshop
organizers.

### Big-Picture Input from Toby

A lot of items in the SC BOF feedback represents a lot of work. That's good! In
terms of becoming an official Carpentry, how do we rank/prioritize pursuing
Carpentries membership, vs. developing new lessons? More to the point, we can
spend time & energy developing new lessons, and join The Carpentries later; or
spend some time refining existing lessons, and join sooner.

- [name=Alan] Q: Is one lesson (hpc-intro) enough for a lesson program?
- [name=Toby] A: **_Aim to be able to say to The Carpentries, "a workshop that
  looks like yours: it shall be 2 days long and teach these lessons."_** When a
  lesson program joins, The Carpentries takes responsibility for supporting
  Workshops. That creates additional costs for The Carpentries' core teams.
  Considerations: - Does the program mesh with The Mission? - Cold, hard
  numbers: will the lesson program attract new participants in Carpentries? -
  Do the lessons fit the model of existing workshops? i.e., 2-day workshops
  divided into 4 separate/related lessons
  - Review the
    [Lesson Incubation Roadmap](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#lesson-program-incubation-roadmap):
    we already fulfill a lot of it. We're missing on:
    - Stability of lessons
    - Clear plan for what constitutes a Workshop
  - Stepping under The Carpentries' Umbrella introduces some constraints on
    rules, style, governance... we don't _have_ to join.
    - The Core Team manages feedback collection, advertising, soliciting
      instructors, directing inquiries to the appropriate Lesson Program team,
      and (potentially) coordinating resources like Cloud providers.

## Later Meeting (Americas)

### Participants

- Andrew Reid (he/him) NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto, ODU

### Notes

- [name=Wirawan]: Lots of frameworks (dask, julia, ...). Do we want to run a
  survey (worldwide?) to find out what framework(s) get used, and where?
  Obvious target: HPC centers across the world.
- [name=Andrew]: Discussion this morning was that Dask material is out there,
  that we can use. For expansion, use what's relatively easy to
  recycle/repurpose/port. Can we teach the lessons as-is, or sprinkle some
  parallel magic on it, or ... ?
- [name=Trevor]: Feedback from the BoF and from Toby this morning suggests that
  we should focus on the material we have and try to get it to a higher level
  of maturity, rather than broadening our scope.
- [name=Trevor] Present priority: Merge useful tidbits from hpc-shell to
  hpc-intro.
  - Should create a presentation / narrative to introduce HPC in the intro
    lesson. Deadline: Feb 4 (NIST workshop). (target: jargon busting)
  - Strongest case for us to join Carpentries is that we now have enough
    materials to cover 2-day workshop in a format similar to the Carpentries'
    lesson.
  - HPC-intro can take the whole day; HPC-parallel-novice the second day. If we
    can focus on refactoring HPC-intro & parallel-novice lessons into discrete
    lessons that can form a 2-day workshop with reasonable pace--this is a good
    ground to request joining the Carpentries.

Recent experience of HPC-intro workshop at NIST

- Andrew & Trevor teaching
- 4 hours long
- got to cover 5/8 of the materials (hpc-intro).
- biggest takeaway: Live coding the `pi.py` example took too long. Instead of
  picking up "muscle memory" for Python (trying to adhere to the Carpentries
  way), it is more beneficial to focus on the scheduler: relevant to the lesson
  goals. So, not to try to demonstrate how to code in Python in this case.
  - Refactor `pi.py` and provide a link to download
  - Launch it almost right away on the cluster, in serial
  - Insert MPI calls as needed to make it parallel
  - Save _Python for HPC_ for the hpc-parallel-novice lesson
- Having a jargon-busting intro & narrative flow will be very helpful
