# July 29, 2021 HPC Carpentry SC21 BoF Proposal Meeting

## Time and Venue

This "meeting" comprises two parts, to improve coverage for our global
community: 1100 UTC and 2200 UTC. Volunteers willing to host additional
sessions should reach out on the
[Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com#hpc-carpentry) or the
[mailing list ](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc) to notify
potential participants.

- Click to convert
  [11:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination%2C+1200+UTC&iso=20210415T12&p1=1440)
  to your local time
- Click to convert
  [22:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2200+UTC&iso=20210520T22&p1=%3A)
  to your local time

:::success
[**_Click Here to Join the Meeting!_**](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx)

The venue is [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx).

:::spoiler You can also call in by phone: Call +1 234-405-0205 PIN: 662 051
554# To view more phone numbers, click this link:
<https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5> :::

:::info **Shared Calendar for HPC Carpentry**

If you have not already, please add the
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)
to your scheduling app so that these are not a surprise. You may also import
the
[ical](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/files/6497063/revised_20210517.ics.zip)
file directly into your calendar, though this will not receive updates in case
of scheduling upsets. Some applications (e.g. Outlook 365) might require the
[public address in iCal format](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics).

:::

## Agenda

### Background

The [SC21](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/) conference is coming up in
November, and is planned to be an in-person event in St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
There is a deadline of August 6 for
[BoF proposals](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/birds-feather-submissions/).

A draft
[draft BoF proposal](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/blob/conferences-directory/conferences/SC21/bof_draft.md)
has been composed and is present as a
[pull request](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/pull/58) on the
HPC coordination repo.

This has already benefited from some excellent resources from Andy Turner from
EPCC.

### Purpose

This special pair of meetings is topic-specific, to refine and polish this
proposal prior to August 6. All interested parties are welcome to attend, we
want this to reflect the community of HPC Carpentry contributors as much as
possible.

---

### 1100 UTC session

#### Attending

- Andrew Reid, (he/him). NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), JSC

#### Discussion

Since the initial distribution, there have been a bunch of comments on the PR.
(Thank you!)

A high-importance one points out the SC21 schedule, which only allows 60 or 90
minutes for BoFs, depending on the slot.

The goal item about "HPC best practices" is not very clear in practical terms.
The underlying idea is that our lessons should build a bridge from novice users
to practitioners who can capably use a modern HPC system. "Best practices"
means our learners will be respectful of shared resources and able to make good
use of modern parallel tools.

Alan has had some success with a tool, "socrative", for gathering feedback from
hybrid sessions. What feedback are we looking for? Broadly speaking, we're
looking for community feedback on how to move forward on our existing lessons.
What lesson should we focus on next? Chapel might not be popular, a container
lesson might be popular. Container lessons already exist.

Additional point about session design -- can we provide candidate lesson
collections that make good sessions, Shell Intro, HPC Intro, then what? Should
we avoid lessons that don't use the Carpentries template?

- [name=Wirawan]: We prefer Carpentry-style lessons if available, but should
  not close ourselves to excellent, openly available materials that can be
  added into our mix, as long as the approach is still close enough to the
  Carpentry approach.

What questions do we want to ask the BoF attendees?

- "What are your pain points?", but not so vague.
- Propose a list of topics, and ask attendees to prioritize (ranked-choice
  vote?).
  - Julia, MPI, Dask, containers, IO, Chapel, others?

* [name=Alan]: If we're serious about becoming a Carpentries lesson program,
  does that mean a full day, or two full days' lesson content?

Sidebar about pre-requisites: We decided earlier that HPC Intro would depend on
the existing Carpentries Shell Intro, and that a stand-alone HPC Shell lesson
would be deprecated. Content from HPC Shell that's needed for HPC Intro will be
incorporated directly into HPC Intro.

The existing Carpentries template is very flexible, though, so we could have
some "shim" content that we add to the HPC Intro lesson. We can pick and
choose.

But this is potentially burdensome to people running lessons, a bewildering
variety of options to pick from can lead to fragmentation.

Side-sidebar: "We" should embrace the lightning-talk opportunity that Peter put
in the slack (Eighth SC Workshop on Best Practices for HPC Training and
Education [BPHTE]
[SC21 workshop entry](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/presentation/?id=wksp110&sess=sess132),
[workshop main page](https://sighpceducation.acm.org/events/BPHTE21CFP.html) ).
Odds of acceptance are maybe better than the BoF. Alan will write up an
abstract and share it on the coordination repo.

Questions for BoF attendees: How long do people want to spend bringing learners
up to speed? Half a day? A day? Two days? What's the end-point?

A good way of solidifying the goals is to come up with some clear questions for
which we want answers from the attendees. Some of the foregoing discussion has
some hints.

##### Infrastructure questions

Additional question: How much does it matter that the lesson take place on
local infrastructure? (Good question for the BoF) Should we make a "how to
stand up a cluster" lesson? Bare-metal, Magic Castle, Amazon Parallel Cluster,
others?

- Local-resource pro: Learners get experience with your actually-existing
  system, can apply this directly in the future.
- Local-resource con: Doesn't match the lesson directly.
- Cloud-resource pro: Standard configuration, can use lesson content directly
  with no modifications.
- Cloud resource con: Does not transfer to existing resources, resources
  evaporate after the lesson so self-paced follow-up is impossible.

Asking the "do you want to stand up a cloud cluster" question to the SC21 BoF
attendees is likely biased in favor of a "yes" answer, possibly deviating
substantially from what would benefit learners. We can still ask it, but we
need to be cautious.

##### Potential attendees / audience

Who are the attendees? Probably cluster operators who have a level of
frustration with bringing users up to speed or having to hand-hold users who
have come in cold without training, and are looking for a training solution for
their users. Mostly future instructors, rather than future learners.

Additional BoF topic: Funding ideas? If a cloud session costs $150 to do, can
we get/offer sponsorship or resources or something? Alan: Amazon would (likely)
throw this at you if you asked. Bringing dollar resources to the table would
raise our profile with the Carpentries.

---

### 2200 UTC session

#### Attending

- Andrew Reid (he/him) NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Annajiat Alim Rasel (he/him), Brac University
- Wirawan Purwanto (he/him), Old Dominion University

#### Discussion

##### The scope of "HPC"

The first sentence of the abstract already narrows the scope to
**cluster-based** HPC resources, but our scope is really broader than that.

- [name=Annajiat]: Sell HPC Carpentry as a way to grow & learn. That may _end_
  in a cluster, but doesn't need to start there.
- [name=Andrew]: Don't need to explicitly include cluster machines, but
  certainly would not exclude them.

Important demarcation of "HPC":

- shared resources
- "beyond your laptops"
- with tools generally unfamiliar with researchers from "laptop computing"
- speed, efficiency, scale, integration
- existing draft has the flavor of "workhorse" HPC, but that's not a broad
  enough scope
  - may include: interactive computing (Jupyter, R, Julia) done on shared
    infrastructure
  - may include: cloud (?)
- infrastructurish matters?
  - setting up a (virtual) cluster
  - containers

What we do not cover:

- databases
- data management (other than those directly pertaining data on these shared
  resources)

"HPC-intro" is best taught with cluster environment. But "HPC-python" can be
taught with environment that is low-performance (emphasis on upgrading the
code, algorithms, libraries rather than deploying on better hardware)

Cloud: is it in scope? It is because it is a way to get computational stuff
done.

The fact we do not have lessons on these topics now does not mean we will be
obligated to make them right away.

On HPC-python: starts with numpy, then moves to workflow (snakemake). But there
are carpentrylessons

##### Setting up HPC Carpentry Workshops

What constitutes an "HPC Carpentry" workshop?

- if possible, reduce duplication of efforts (not to reinvent the wheel)
- could provide a recommended set (assembly) of topics with points to those
  materials

##### Community poll: Prior workshop composition

During BOF it may be helpful to gather people's prior selections of topics they
covered in their workshop: length, order of materials, ...

##### BOF Format

SC21 organizer has accommodated a way to participate in the event remotely:

https://sc21.supercomputing.org/remote-participation-faq/
