# July 15, 2021 HPC Carpentry Coordination Meeting

## Time and Venue

This "meeting" comprises two parts, to improve coverage for our global
community: 1100 UTC and 2200 UTC. Volunteers willing to host additional
sessions should reach out on the
[Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com#hpc-carpentry) or the
[mailing list ](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc) to notify
potential participants.

- Click to convert
  [11:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination%2C+1200+UTC&iso=20210415T12&p1=1440)
  to your local time
- Click to convert
  [22:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2200+UTC&iso=20210520T22&p1=%3A)
  to your local time

:::success
[**_Click Here to Join the Meeting!_**](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx)

The venue is [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx).

:::spoiler You can also call in by phone: Call +1 234-405-0205 PIN: 662 051
554# To view more phone numbers, click this link:
<https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5> :::

:::info **Shared Calendar for HPC Carpentry**

If you have not already, please add the
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)
to your scheduling app so that these are not a surprise. You may also import
the
[ical](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/files/6497063/revised_20210517.ics.zip)
file directly into your calendar, though this will not receive updates in case
of scheduling upsets. :::

## Agenda

See the
[previous coordination CodiMD](https://codimd.carpentries.org/MEkIkTtLQ3KKbG7JFC1UVQ?view).
For general process info, see also the
[accepted process proposal](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng).

### Governance

- Governance issues appear to be well in hand. A decision was made last time
  about the scope and audience for the HPC Intro lesson, see the first tiem
  under "state of the sites" below. (This issue has historically been both a
  governance and site issue.)
- Milestones -- the "learner feedback" remains the only "unchecked box" for a
  formal progression to beta status, and in any case is a good idea. If people
  have feedback from instructional sessions, this is the item for it! In
  previous meetings, there have been suggestions of a questionnaire, and
  possible feedback from adjacent communities.

### SC21

The annual ACM SC21 conference is currently planned to be an in-person event
Nov. 14-19, 2021, in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. There are some
[submission deadlines](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/submission-deadlines/)
coming up in early August that are likely of interest to us.

- Birds of a Feather (Bof):
  [Guidance](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/submit/birds-feather-submissions/#section1),
  submissions close Aug. 6, 2021. Andrew Reid and Trevor Keller will present a
  draft HPC Carpentry BoF proposal, informed by feedback from Andy Turner
  (thanks Andy!).
- Research Software Engineers in HPC (thanks to Peter Steinbach for pointing
  this out in the Slack!): [Description](https://us-rse.org/rse-hpc-2021/),
  submissions close Aug. 6, 2021. Many of us fill a role like this in our
  organizations, and the connection between helping scientists deploy their
  workflows and HPC Carpentry seems clear.
- Other SC21 opportunties?

### State of the Sites

- The
  [audience selection](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/54)
  issue is largely resolved. HPC Intro will require
  [The Unix Shell](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/) as a
  prerequisite, build on it where additional info is needed (e.g. `ssh`
  operations), and also confine itself to launching parallel jobs, and
  demonstrating the benefits of parallelism, without getting into actual
  parallel coding e.g. in MPI or Dask. Parallel coding will be covered in a
  successor lesson.
- The [website repo](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io)
  has gotten some traffic following a request to better distinguish our scope
  from the Carpentries. This is the slot for discussing how that's going,
  particularily if there are un-addressed high-priority items.

### Other Business

- General discussion about
  [session-request](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/pull/43)
  functionality on the website.

---

### 1100 UTC session

#### Attending

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), JSC
- Benson Muite (he/him)
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Luis Villanueva, Smithsonian

### Governance

- Audience-selection issue is deferred to the "State of the Sites" section
  below.
- Learner Feedback. We want more of this, and have had prior discussions about
  a more formal workflow, maybe some kind of questionnaire or form that's more
  structured than just a bunch of red/green stickies.
  - Alan was planning to look into this, has not had time.
  - Benson and Annajiat are working on feedback from their recent activity,
    will likely have something in a couple of weeks.
  - Do we want some kind of app for this? Alan: This feels like a high-effort
    solution. Benson: Possibly useful to Carpentries projects beyond us, so the
    effort pays off more broadly.
  - Andrew: The narrow goal is to drive lesson modifications and development,
    for which free-form text fields are essential. This is a per-session data
    set which is easy to read through and translate in to e.g. issues and PRs.
  - Alan: Sharing back of the "Stickies" to the lesson developers is not
    routine, we need to encourage it.
  - Andrew: One means of encouragement is to make it easy. A Google form or
    GitHub template would help.
  - Trevor: Prior experience at NIST was for the organizer to aggregate the
    stickies and share the results with the instructors.
  - Q for Benson (from Trevor): Does the app idea have advantages, e.g. not
    routing data through Google? A: More control over q's and formatting,
    control over export, still lightweight e.g. via Heroku. Simplifies
    aggregation from different workshops, but higher effort to set up.
  - Alan: Suggest to start with the Google form for ease of set-up, data is
    similar to what Benson describes, and "we" (Alan, others?) already know how
    to do this.
  - Trevor: For now, one-up/one-down is easy to do via Google, but if Benson is
    enthusiastic to set something up, nobody will stop him. Might even help.

* Action: (Alan?) Set up the form, as a first-order starting point, link from
  the website. Possibly explore Heroku or other app solutions later.
* Q (Alan): We have a couple of forms already, a registration one and a
  workshop-request one. Consensus is that the steering committee is the right
  scope for edit permissions for all of these.
* Additional follow-up, Benson requested review of the draft post-workshop
  survey questions for the
  [BRAC University activity](https://annajiat.github.io/2021-02-14-bracu-online/).
  Questions look OK, Andrew wondered if a stronger negative question might be
  good -- there's one about "least useful" portion, but maybe something like
  "what did you not like" would get some better actionable negative feedback.

### SC21

https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/pull/58

> A BoF submission includes:
>
> Session leader information; Selection of a topic area that best fits your BoF
> (see below);
>
> - Abstract (100-word maximum);
> - Long description (500-word maximum) clearly stating goal(s), topic,
>   relevance to the expected HPC audience, and the expected outcome; and
> - Session format information, including a description (150-word maximum) of
>   how you plan to organize the BoF session.

- Question about attendance, conflicting trends. "Up to 50" is not lying, but
  we really are guessing.
- Competition: ongoing HPC Education BOF (HETE? maybe?)
  - [name=Andrew]: we ought to stand on our own
  - [name=Alan]: yeah, but there's a lot of overlap
  - ~~Hijacking their BOF is a good backup~~ we can join them!
  - [name=Andrew]: Distinguish ourselves from them by emphasizing the
    lesson-development feedback aspect.
    - SC19:
      [Emerging Technologies and HPC Education, Outreach, and Training: Challenges and Opportunities](https://sc19.supercomputing.org/presentation/index-id=bof198&sess=sess291.html)
    - ISC: (HPC Education and Training for Emerging
      Technologies)[https://sighpceducation.acm.org/events/HETET21.html]
  - Possible strategy: Emphasize community character, our scheme is open to
    contributions and adaptable for use, it's not one specific lesson for one
    specific event. Leverage the Carpentries approach.
  - Follow-up: Schedule a BoF-specific session for July 29. Andrew will work on
    scheduling, try to get a single session.

### State of the Sites

- [name=Toby]: regarding the website, **thank you** for making the changes so
  far. only question right now is about the Regional Coordinators page, listing
  Megan there. Is the info on that page accurate? It links to the info about
  Regional Coordinators in The Carpentries Handbook and I don't know how much
  of that stuff is relevant/accurate in the conext of HPC Carpentry?
- [name=Trevor] Can look at this, Megan was consulted about serving in this
  role and agreed. We actually have someone in this role! Reviewing the actual
  text is still a good idea. [name=Toby]: thanks!

- Scope of the lesson ratified.

- Website issues: We are mostly done with dealing with unlinking from the
  Carpentries, as req'd by [name=Toby], but the site is a bit content-starved
  at the moment. We should populate it with past and future workshops.

### Other business

- One content item is workshop request form. Should we publish this and start
  collecting info? What privacy policy should we have?
  - The site is getting some traffic! If we publish the form, we're likely to
    get some requests. Are we overselling our capabilities, will people expect
    us to have a bottomless well of instructors?
    - For funding/marketing, having some record of demand would be good. If we
      have people clamoring for instructors, but we can't serve the demand,
      that's good in a supply-and-demand sort of sense when petitioning for
      funding.
    - Pitching the form as an expression of interest, so as not to commit
      ourselves or others beyond our capabilities, is wise. Alan will rework
      the form to reflect this.
    - Secondary issue: The Google form goes to Alan when someone submits it?
      Nobody else knows this has happened?
    - Need for testing the current and desired workflow.

---

### 2200 UTC session

#### Attending

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto

#### Governance

#### SC21

One input we want to gather from community: for parallel processing, what level
of parallel needed for novice users?

- MPI with C++
- MPI with Python (the pi example)
- Dask-based parallelism

An important aspect of the current (July 15, 2021) draft of the BoF proposal is
that it's highly centered on the HPC Intro lesson, with a nod towards a
successor parallel coding lesson. We have more repos than that, community input
on prioritization and strategies for all the repos would be valuable. The BoF
proposal should reflect this, and doesn't.

Focus on refactoring the lesson program, and discussing experiences from past
workshops.

#### State of the Sites

#### Other Business

There being relatively few attendees, Trevor and Andrew spent some time looking
at the BoF proposal.
