# August 19, 2021 HPC Carpentry Coordination Meeting

## Time and Venue

This "meeting" comprises two parts, to improve coverage for our global
community: 1100 UTC and 2200 UTC. Volunteers willing to host additional
sessions should reach out on the
[Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com#hpc-carpentry) or the
[mailing list ](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc) to notify
potential participants.

- Click to convert
  [11:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination%2C+1200+UTC&iso=20210415T12&p1=1440)
  to your local time
- Click to convert
  [22:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2200+UTC&iso=20210520T22&p1=%3A)
  to your local time

:::success
[**_Click Here to Join the Meeting!_**](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx)

The venue is [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx).

:::spoiler You can also call in by phone: Call +1 234-405-0205 PIN: 662 051
554# To view more phone numbers, click this link:
<https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5> :::

:::info **Shared Calendar for HPC Carpentry**

If you have not already, please add the
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)
to your scheduling app so that these are not a surprise. You may also import
the
[ical](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/files/6497063/revised_20210517.ics.zip)
file directly into your calendar, though this will not receive updates in case
of scheduling upsets. :::

## Agenda

See the
[previous coordination CodiMD](https://codimd.carpentries.org/rokEQgg2RCKuIEXVy5Rh5A?view).
For general process info, see also the
[accepted process proposal](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng).

This session's agenda is fairly light, as we've put a fair amount of effort
into the
[SC21 BoF](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/blob/conferences-directory/conferences/SC21/bof_draft.md)
proposal recently.

### Governance

- Governance issues are mostly in-hand. We have a long-standing issue to reach
  out to others in the Carpentries (esp. Kari Jordan) on community-building
  advice.

### SC21

- Feedback on the BoF process would be welcome. Did people feel engaged, like
  their input was valued? Was it too fast or too slow?

### State of the Sites

- A review of current issues on the lessons would be welcome, with a view to
  setting priorities for focusing near-term effort.
- There has been substantial work on the
  [website repo](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io),
  feedback on this would also be welcome.

### Other Business

- There was a transient access issue with accessing the shell lesson mentioned
  in the Slack (Aug. 18, 2021). The issue itself was resolved without
  intervention, but probably we should nail down a process for investigating
  this if it happens in the future. Who has access to the hosting service,
  what's the process?

> I have been getting intermittent and seemingly random errors since yesterday.
> It seems to be solved for now. Raising it as a note for potential future
> accessibility issues from different parts of the world. Event 1, ISP1,
> yesterday: http://www.hpc-carpentry.org/hpc-shell/05-scripts/index.html was
> working fine under ISP1 and ISP2. It showed a temporary error "The webpage at
> https://182.79.218.34:8080/webadmin/deny/index.php?dpid=15&dpruleid=11&cat=107&dplanguage=-&url=http%3a%2f%2f185%2e199%2e111%2e153%2fhpc-shell%2f05-scripts%2findex%2ehtml
> might be temporarily down or it may have moved permanently to a new web
> address." Event 2, ISP2, today: Cloudflare error 524 as shown in the
> screenshot below.

---

### 1100 UTC session

#### Attendees

- _name, pronouns, affiliation_
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Toby Hodges, he/him, The Carpentries
- Wirawan Purwanto
- Benson Muite
- Annajiat Alim Rasel, (him/him), BracU

- Toby will be on parental leave through January 2022, so we will not have as
  direct a channel to The Carpentries as we have enjoyed for the past few
  months. \* [name=Toby: If you have urgent questions in that time, the other
  members of the Curriculum Team are at least as helpful as I am: Erin Becker,
  Michael Culshaw-Maurer, Zhian Kamvar, and François Michonneau.]

#### Governance

We had some plans to discuss Carpentries membership with Kari Jordan, but Peter
Steinbach was point on that and has stepped back from HPC Carpentries duties.
What is our path forward?

- [name=Toby]: Conversation would be about steps we need to take to become an
  official lesson program. HPC Carpentry is closer than it was, having
  established a Steering Committee.

  - Do we still want to become a lesson program (is that our goal)? _vs._
    contributing to another lesson program

- ... Curriculum advisory committee?
  - deciding which lessons to add
  - in addition to maintainers who will take care of day-to-day maintenance of
    the lessons
  - [name=Toby]: watch The Carpentries blog for a post soon about the work
    going into re-establishing Curriculum Advisory Committees for Software
    Carpentry & Data Carpentry, which should provide some more context for
    this.

#### SC21 BoF Proposal

Current process:

- Peter made the first proposal
- Annajiat gave feedback
- Some discussion in a few meetings and GitHub coordination issues
- Andrew and Trevor put a lot of "bang" to iron out the proposal
- Andrew was driving much of the process

Benefit: have only one editorial voice

Concern: whether people's voice was left out

Note: The final version on our GitHub coordination was not exactly what
submitted due to difference of "word counting" in the SC21 submission system.
Word count was at 550, had to pare down on-the-fly while entering the document.

TODO: need to merge in https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/pull/58 .
... but first, put the actually-submitted version on that branch (Andrew).

##### Proposal for Proposals

The initiator of conference proposal abstracts should mark the PR as a Draft or
Work-in-Progress, blocking the merge until the final draft is complete and
submitted

#### State of the Sites

- [name=Toby]: **Thank you** to Alan, Trevor, and anyone else involved in
  updating the website to better represent the current relationship between HPC
  Carpentry and The Carpentries.

#### Review of Issues: Shell lesson for HPC carpentry

Decided a few meetings ago: Not to have our own hpc-shell lesson, but build
upon software-carpentry's shell-novice.

- Set shell-novice as the prerequisite of hpc-intro
- HPC-intro could start with intro to SSH
- Then proceed to introducing the things not covered in shell-novice.

Advantages of using shell-novice:

- Does what's on the tin well. There's a small amount of extra that we would
  have to cover.
- That shell-novice has a large number of maintainers, lesson quality is very
  good.

Challenges:

- It's a moving target that is not under our control.

Why hpc-shell existed in the first place? (Need to ask Peter Steinbach, whether
he did not know the Carpentries there.)

[name=Wirawan] Opened an issue,
https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/70 --- please continue
discussion there.

##### Shim "hpc-shell" lesson?

Two possible approaches for workshop organizers:

- Carpentries' Unix Intro plus a shim, followed by the HPC Intro without any
  supplementary shell material
- HPC Shell followed by HPC Intro without any supplementary shell material.

The idea of the "shim" approach (first bullet above) is that it gets us the
benefit of the Carpentries material, while allowing the HPC Intro lesson to
stand alone, without losing HPC focus due to the need to cover shell material.

Jupyter-based terminal access?

- Could we consider adding using Jupyter as a shell alternative?

  - it could be an extra
  - on some sites, challenge connecting to SSH directly form outside
  - could be added as an add-on / instructor's tips
  - some HPC sites (esp. university-centric in the US) want to hide security
    holes behind a firewall/VPN
  - Good to assume some kind of ssh access, but it maybe through a web
    interface, such as Jupyter

- Amazon seems to use Shell for HPC access
  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/tutorials_03_batch_mpi.html

- [name=Andrew]: Leadership-class HPC is not our audience, we're trying to
  raise up the mainstream (e.g. medium-sized HPCs in universities). Our goal:
  democratizing access to HPC. If OpenOnDemand is more prevalent than direct
  shell connections, we should adapt.

- [name=Andrew]: (From ~~a person~~ Mark Piercy at Stanford) A site was using a
  GUI web front-gate before reaching the HPC login node. The GUI made it easy
  for new person to select the right resources \[for job submission], but there
  were issues with classic tools, e.g. problem accessing stdout/stderr, ...
  - [name=Toby]: might be captured in the notes here, from Mark Piercy at
    Stanford?
    https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/blob/main/minutes/2020-12-10_Coworking.md.
    Quoting below: ([name=Andrew Yes! That's the one, thank you!)] ([name=Toby
    the benefits of uploading your minutes to GitHub...])

> Using OpenOnDemand. "File editor" is a WYSIWYG browser tool with
> drag-and-drop; helpful for folks unfamiliar with command-line editors.
>
> - Actual dispatch of jobs to the cluster ("job composer") is the worst.
>   Nominally generates an SBATCH file somewhere, but totally opaque &
>   inaccessible. Much easier to open a shell & editor, write the script
>   yourself.
> - JupyterLab & TensorBoard interfaces are pretty handy.
> - Prereq: OpenVNC on each compute node. Without it, OOD is much less smooth
>   and can be less stable.

- [name=Annajiat] has found (teaching with Benson) that some students are
  unable to SSH in to some Intel systems directly due to firewall/DNS. Going
  through the Jupyter notebook somehow circumvents this and allows forward
  progress.
  - Sometimes when students try a remote connection to a cloud provider it does
    not work. Jupyter provides a terminal that helps get students on track.
  - Intel Cloud has a Jupyter environment configured, so browser-based access
    to a terminal works. Configuring a proxy for learners' shell applications
    is a heavy lift, when this simple alternative is available.
- [name=Andrew]: make this part of Setup and Instructor notes? the lesson would
  require that instructors can provide learners with shell access to their
  system, perhaps link to some resources for other ways to gain that access
  e.g. to circumnavigate DNS issues.

- [name=Andrew]: The web/gui vs. command-line question is maybe a good question
  for the SC21 BoF, assuming it's accepted. Also, what do the cloud tools do?
  Will that be an increasingly common use-case, or are cloud systems too
  transient? The Magic Castle tool-set uses Jupyter.

##### Cloud-based infrastructure

- [name=Annajiat] Virtual computing lab: https://ircc.fiu.edu/ - has Jupyter
  lab setup as an alternative to access HPC where SSH access is not possible.

- [name=Benson] Maybe good to find out what commercial cloud HPC providers will
  have in addition to ssh.

Many people would use a shell for doing cloud computing, so it is a good skill
to have.

Examples:

- Amazon:
  - https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/getting-started/
  - Seems to assume SSH:
    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/tutorials_03_batch_mpi.html
- Intel cloud:
- Amazon
- Alibaba
- Oracle
- GCP

#### Other Business

https://opensciencegrid.org/virtual-school-2021/materials/

Learners using blank text editor to create HTCondor simple jobs. Did this a few
times. Lots of hands-on activities, opportunity to build muscle memory. We at
HPC-carpentry could also incorporate a lot of live-coding (in the Carpentries
style) to develop this familiarity with the job submission scripts.

Late-breaking question about whether the
[NIST FDS](https://www.nist.gov/services-resources/software/fds-and-smokeview)
developers would be interested in doing a lesson. The motivation is that fire
or safety departments may not have HPC resources, so education on cloud
operation might find an audience.

The connectivity issue in the agenda was not addressed until the 2200 session
(see below).

---

### 2200 UTC session

#### Attendees

- _name, pronouns, affiliation_
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Annajiat Alim Rasel, (him/him), BracU

#### State of the Site

- [name=Annajiat] raised a problem connecting to hpc-carpentry.org, wherein
  CloudFlare throws a 524 error.
- Here's what they have to say (not very useful):
  https://community.cloudflare.com/t/community-tip-fixing-error-524-a-timeout-occurred/42342
- The errors persisted for more than 30 minutes.
- Can we make use of Cloudflare's
  [cache](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cache/best-practices/customize-cache)?

We believe the site is hosted on GitHub, there's some levels of indirection
between the Cloudflare front end and the request actually hitting the GitHub
system. Some documentation of how this all works would be valuable (and may
already partially exist?)

- HTTP 524 is a Cloudflare-specific error.
- You can directly access the lesson materials via GitHub.io, cutting
  Cloudflare out of the path:
  - https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/hpc-intro/
  - https://hpc-carpentry.github.io/hpc-shell/

Interesting idea for the future: Could we maintain a list of HPC applications?
This might help find an audience for HPC educational resources such as we
offer.

On hpc-intro, we have top-level lesson outlines.
https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro#lesson-outlines
