# May 20, 2021 HPC Carpentry Coordination Meeting

## Time and Venue

This "meeting" comprises two parts, to improve coverage for our global
community: 1100 UTC and 2200 UTC. Volunteers willing to host additional
sessions should reach out on the
[Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com#hpc-carpentry) or the
[mailing list ](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc) to notify
potential participants.

- Click to convert
  [11:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination%2C+1200+UTC&iso=20210415T12&p1=1440)
  to your local time
- Click to convert
  [22:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2200+UTC&iso=20210520T22&p1=%3A)
  to your local time

:::success
[**_Click Here to Join the Meeting!_**](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx)

The venue is [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx).

:::spoiler You can also call in by phone: Call +1 234-405-0205 PIN: 662 051
554# To view more phone numbers, click this link:
<https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5> :::

:::info **Shared Calendar for HPC Carpentry**

If you have not already, please add the
[Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)
to your scheduling app so that these are not a surprise. You may also import
the
[ical](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/files/6497063/revised_20210517.ics.zip)
file directly into your calendar, though this will not receive updates in case
of scheduling upsets. :::

## Agenda

See the
[previous coordination CodiMD](https://codimd.carpentries.org/yxz3pFqJS_Wx_DLmHR49wQ?both).
See also the
[accepted process proposal](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng).

### Governance

- **Elections!** Now that we have a reasonably democratic process, and
  nominations, we can elect members of a steering committee. There are two
  relevant Github issues. See the
  [process description](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng)
  and the actual
  [elections issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/44)
  for the nomination and election process. This issue closes after this
  meeting, with a steering committee elected!
- Curriculum Mindset feedback. See the
  [issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/46) (NB meeting
  date is wrong in the issue.) The idea is to "zoom out" from the minutiae of
  lesson development and revisit our overall strategy and its alignment with
  Carpentries priorities.
- Milestones -- the planned follow-up from the Milestone conversation in April
  was that our top priority should be learner feedback on our lessons --- this
  is the only "unchecked box" for moving the HPC Intro lesson to Carpentries
  "Beta" status. Anyone with feedback to share should bring it to this item!

### State of the Sites

- There has been some traffic on the sites, and a few issues have been cleared.
  This is the agenda slot where the community can share ideas for how to
  prioritize existing or new issues.
- Checking the April notes, it seems there may be unresolved issues about how
  to stand up resources. Has anyone exercised the Compute Canada workflow? A
  worked example might help with getting some learner feedback.

### Other Business

---

### 1100 UTC Session

- Andrew Reid, (he/him), NIST
- Alan O'Cais, (he/him), JSC
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries
- Benson Muite (he/him)

#### Elections

Voting closed on Steering Committee membership immediately before this meeting
began. The state of the
[elections issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/44), the
steering committee consists of Trevor Keller (15 votes), Andrew Reid (12
votes), Alan O'Cais (11 votes), Annajiat Alim Rasel (10 votes), and Wirawan
Purwanto (5 votes). The minimum number of upvotes to be elected was 5. (Note
for next time: be explicit about exactly what time voting will close, as well
as what day.)

#### Curriculum Mindset

What can we draw from "Teaching Tech Together" to improve our lessons and
practice in HPC Carpentry? The community has been focused on editing the
lessons, and to some extent also on lesson infrastructure (e.g. changes to the
Ruby, etc.). We are perhaps overdue for a step back to think about the overall
lesson flow, with a view to meeting our larger strategic goals, and at least
acknowledging and maybe removing redundancy with other lessons.

Decision-making on where to remove redundancy would be best informed by data
from learners.

- Alan: We could just drop the parallel code in, in a scenario where "this is
  some MPI code I've been given, and told to run" -- this is a common use-case.
- Trevor: Black-box codes are not in the spirit of our mission, we probably
  want to engage with the parallelism, but we should be clear about what
  pedagogical problem we are solving.
- Andrew: The motivation for the original CPI example was that multi-machine
  parallelism is something clusters do that other resources do not, it's
  important to demonstrate the benefit of the run-up to this.
- Benson: EPCC has some parallel thinking workshops, paper exercises to walk
  through a parallel scheduling workflow -- literally. Good icebreaker.
  - Should see an example of a "good" code.
  - [name=Alan]: there are a lot of people who _don't code_.
  - [name=Andrew]: The mechanics of parallelism are useful, even for those who
    don't code. Going just one step "under the hood" with MPI (ranks, comms) is
    important to build a mental model. If _we_ don't teach this, who will?

Toby: There are a lot of users who fit many different learning models. Think
through & decide who we really want to _teach to_, otherwise we can't make a
really good lesson. So, decide: who do we want to target?

- Benson: have a track for those with no background such as the Chapel lesson,
  but also have material for more experienced coders such as the current hpc
  intro which assumes a programming background.
- Andrew: Does the Python example work for "non-coders"?
- Trevor: any language addressed by one of the other Carpentries (i.e. Python
  or R, currently, I guess Bash too) is fair game. So we can assume some
  non-zero level of experience with these.
- Andrew: so would we require e.g. a Software Carpentry workshop as a
  prerequisite?
- Trevor: not necessarily, but at least look (or work) through The Carpentries'
  Python novice material.
- Alan: is NumPy covered in SWC Python?
- Toby: yes, in one of the two lessons (python-novice-inflammation) but not the
  other (python-novice-gapminder)
- Benson: the Chapel lesson could be useful for some as it assumes limited
  programming background, but the curent HPC intro iss great for people who are
  not already familiar with programming
- Alan: is that lesson up-to-date?
- Benson: it seems to be pretty good. could be adapted to a different
  programming languages and examples fairly easily, I think
  - "If I had just one day to teach parallel, the Chapel lesson..." has a good
    format, approachable. Assumes no programming background.
- Trevor: The HPC Carpentry audience is probably people who have some
  programming experience -- in this view, the problem we are solving is
  speeding up codes, so users/learners may be assumed to a least be able to run
  codes, and know e.g. what a loop is, and other simple programming concepts.
  - It's hard to do high-performance computing if you haven't done computing
    first.
- Benson has seen people go from zero to parallel in a day with
  [PCJ](http://pcj.icm.edu.pl/) for data analysis.
- Trevor: We should target people who have been told, one way or another, that
  they should use HPC, but may not know what it is. They know what code is.
- Toby: helping to rationalize deciding on the audience... which is larger, vs.
  which is already catered to in the world of well-crafted training material?
  _If_ there's a relatively large community who have heard of HPC but know
  nothing about it, _and_ there isn't already material addressing their needs,
  _then_ we can start from their perspective.
- Benson: pools of HPC users & experts with regional scope; traditionally, do
  not cater to those with limited programming backgrounds.
  - Andrew: Supplementary to Toby's thought. Is there an underserved audience
    where we can have a large impact, independent of the scope? Are there
    materials we can borrow/steal/integrate to reduce the barrier?
  - Alan: meeting with Elixir (a European network for bioinformatics
    infrastructure), 1-day workshop on HPC training material; collaborate
    already with Software & Data Carpentry.
  - Toby: Good quality HPC content for the kind of audience Elixir caters to,
    was hard to find.

#### Milestones

Is there feedback from other workshops? The community in Australia that we made
contact with had plans to teach, do they have feedback? There's
[a workshop in Bangladesh](https://annajiat.github.io/2021-02-14-bracu-online/)
which will complete soon, they may have feedback? Annajiat and Benson are
teaching this group, and will provide feedback.

#### State of the Sites

Alan has some AWS resources, and has exercised the Compute Canada Terraform
("Magic Castle") workflow. We are in a good place to run an actual workshop to
help get feedback. Alan can also provide example configs. A "nice to have" for
this is control of a domain, with API access, like CloudFlare or Google.

- [name=Toby]: An example AWS config would be very useful, for this & other
  Carpentries.
- [name=Alan]: It might get out of date; the config is MagicCastle-centric.

#### Other Business

Alan has contacts in AWS and Azure, building on his prior experience. Are there
opportunities for sponsorship? Benson: Can we get input from cloud operators,
to maybe integrate our instructional HPC set-up with their infrastructure? AWS
has an "instant cluster" button. On the one hand, we're not here to promote
anyone's infrastructure, and lowest-common-denominator is likely to be the most
flexible.

Big Seven cloud providers can probably already handle the Magic Castle
deployment. "Instant Cluster" on AWS comes with Slurm already running.

Trevor: We should limit how much effort we put into standing up cloud
resources, this is tangential to our mission. The motivating example for HPC
Intro presumed an existing cluster.

Benson: Can we get some of these people involved? Alan: It's possible to get
resources (CPUs, storage), but very hard to get deeper engagement e.g. with
cloud provider staff attending meetings, "giving back" content for their
system, etc. Cloud providers treat configs and training as IP, they're hoarding
it. Benson: We can still ask.

#### Action items:

- Andrew: Create an audience-selection issue on the coordination repo.
  [Done!](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/54)
- Benson: Talk to cloud and other HPC providers in industry, see about better
  integration.
- Trevor: Review user stories in light of today's discussion about audience
  selection.

---

### 2200 UTC Session

- Annajiat Alim Rasel, (he/him), BracU
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto, (he/him), ODU

#### Election Results

See the
[process description](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng)
and the actual
[elections issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/44) for
the nomination and election process.

The Steering Committee consists of Trevor Keller (15 votes), Andrew Reid (12
votes), Alan O'Cais (11 votes), Annajiat Alim Rasel (10 votes), and Wirawan
Purwanto (5 votes). The minimum number of votes in favor to be elected was 5.

The highest participation level was 15 votes. According to our
[process](https://codimd.carpentries.org/3VbpZ4C5T5eLD9V_0ZJGng?both), this
means the number of :+1: votes required to pass the next proposal will be
`1+15//2 = 8`.

#### Curriculum Mindset

Parallel code run:

- Many people come to use HPC because they believe there is benefit in running
  in parallel.
- Parallel codes in various languages, including those considered more modern
  or more "niche" (e.g. Chapel)
- Toby: proposal to resolve these different pulls to help focus our curriculum
  development: we need to decide who the audience of our workshops is; not just
  hpc-intro but other lessons to. So then we build suite of lessons targeting
  certain groups of people.

  - Somebody who does not know programming but need to use HPC. Very difficult
    to teach well to this group.
    - This can be helped by Software Carpentry lessons e.g. python-novice.
  - Target more those [who can program] but that are not yet well served with
    the existing training materials.

- We can focus on using Python to do something parallel; on HPC environment and
  the tools around it.
- Look at coordination issue
  [#54](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/54) for audience
  selection, and
  [#46](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/46).

- [name=Wirawan]: refer to
  [Scaling to Petascale Institute](https://bluewaters.ncsa.illinois.edu/petascale-summer-institute)
  (BlueWaters/TACC/Argonne)
  - Shall we put out a survey to help determine which areas are least-served by
    existing training materials?
  - A quick review would be helpful: materials that are hard to find for us are
    also hard for the people who need them, which counts as under-serving those
    people.

##### About the Pi example

Three versions of Pi example.

Is this Pi example still needed, if the goal of HPC-carpentry lessons is to
introduce the cluster-ops?

- (+) Pi is very simple example, algorithm is very simple
- (+) Pi code can be understood
- (+) Pi shows the benefit of parallelism
- (-) If people have never written or read a code, getting into the code will
  confuse people even more
- (+) Pi code demonstrates how to run a parallel code in HPC (e.g. `mpiexec`
  command, resource allocation) and how to gain better result or
  time-to-solution via parallelism

"Parallelism" is the power behind HPC--parallel processing is indispensable to
gain results in a reasonable amount of time. There are different approaches of
parallelism:

- tightly coupled (MPI, OpenMP, OpenSHMEM, ...)
- loosely coupled (those that can processed in a _high throughtput_ fashion)

Question: In considering what the Pi example would serve best--can we consider
the population of HPC users that we serve at different centers?

Example on facility "A":

- Some are people who don't code, but receive code from other people and need
  to run it on HPC.
- A few can code and make the code run more efficiently / parallel on HPC (this
  is smaller % of population).

Example on facility "B":

- Many users never write code.
- A small fraction develop their own codes.
- Even smaller fraction develop their own parallel codes.

The majority of HPC users are NOT software developers, but they are also NOT
those who have never written any code.

- [name=Annajiat]: Fewer people code these days. But Python is rising in
  importance so I vote to retain what's in the existing materials. But need
  more/better documentation on the codes. (More docstring or explanation can be
  added)

Typing the code or not?

- (+) Carpentry's mindset is that all learners type the same things that the
  instructors type--those keystrokes are the part of the learning
- (-) If not enough time, or participants are very behind, we can give "last
  resort" link/path where they can fetch the code
- (+) Not recommend copying-and-pasting the code, as that does not foster
  learning
- (+) While typing, the learners try to absorb what the code is actually doing
- (+) Our goal is not to teach Python but to teach message passing, etc.

From "Teaching Tech together" -- it is OK for people to leave the workshop with
partial / incomplete impression, but with some things or terms that they can
google on their own later if they want to konw more.

#### Other Business

##### Feedback from actual teaching

If there are people who already teach "hpc-intro" lesson, we want your thoughts
and feedback.

- post a separate issue on
  https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues , add "feedback"
  tag

##### State of the sites

If any ideas, mention them now.

### Action Items

- [name=Wirawan]: Put together a survey (or "literature review") to review
  existing training materials. (Put this in issue #54)
