# HPCC Meeting, December 19, 2024

The HPC Carpentry Steering Committee hosts meetings on the first and third Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

* [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; on [Zoom Room 2][zoom_early], better for Africa, Asia, and Europe  
  Meeting ID: 824 315 0376, Passcode: 202020
* [17:00 EST][evening] &mdash; on [Zoom Room 3][zoom_late], better for the Americas and Oceania  
  Meeting ID: 271 847 9229, Passcode: 202020

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available [online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->
[zoom_early]: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom2?pwd=WmVCOUlPUm1laFk5SUp1UWg5cjhEUT09
[zoom_late]: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom3?pwd=ZGY2VVRIRDhGSU84Uys1dEx1YXphZz09
[earlier]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241219T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Meeting+1
[evening]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241219T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Meeting+2
[last-meeting]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Tn61dnl6SEeMh4-K7lEj0w


## Agenda

### HPC Intro Lesson Development

Jean has been leading the charge on this. Jean's fork of Toby's flattened [HPC Intro](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) can be found at https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake.  

There are three instances of the Scheduler episode. In the [original](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-scheduler.md)), the flattened snippet looks like ``{{ site.remote.prompt }}``. The [EPCC instance](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-epcc-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-epcc-scheduler.Rmd)) took the EPCC version of that episode from the EPCC repo and showed their snippet strategy worked (same snippet now has format \`r config\$remote\$prompt\`) with a slightly tweaked instance of EPCC's [yaml config](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/epcc_config.yaml). Finally, an [HPCC version](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-hpcc-scheduler.Rmd)) using the EPCC Scheduler episode content and HPCC snippets that has the values for HPCC snippets into [lesson_config.yaml](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/lesson_config.yaml). 

ToDos and decision points
1. Determine if this snippet strategy should accommodate scheduler-specific snippets in addition to site-specific snippets (educated guess: can provide scheduler-specific yaml files to guide lesson customization)
2. Decide if the repo should contain 
    a. many locale-specific snippet files (ie. retain existing pre-flattened repo structure) OR
    b. just one (or a core set if providing scheduler-specific examples) to guide local customization (ie. customized file stays in local repo).
3. What, if any, content merging between current HPC Intro and EPCC repo
    a.  use EPCC as "base" file (ie. take advantage of EPCC content with already-formatted snippets and back-port/revert differing content) OR 
    b. work through each HPC Intro episode and convert to R markdown (requires adjusting some non-snippet hyperlinks) and adjust old snippets to new format (defer decisons on integrating EPCC content)

By way of reminder, the goal is to migrate the [HPC Intro][hpc-intro] lesson to the Carpentries Workbench. There's a [shared document](https://codimd.carpentries.org/e-TnbrTaRSSAFXhGILr6NQ) with notes about how this is done in the EPCC world. As of Sept. 27, what had happened was, a [flattened version](https://github.com/tkphd/hpc-intro-online) had been created, then [migrated to the workbench](https://github.com/tobyhodges/probable-pancake) using the automatic migration tool (thanks Toby!).

### Conferences and Outreach

Broadly speaking, we should probably have a conversation about the goals of the outreach efforts. These certainly include raising awareness of our efforts in the broader community, but also, what is our "ask" of the community? Do we want new instructors? People to ask us to do workshops? Sites or people to do workshops without us?

#### Actual Conferences

ISC (Hamburg) BoF proposals are open. Anybody interested in taking the lead?

### Carpentries Incubation

As a reminder, the [full set of nominal requirements are in the Carpentries Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#phase-2-incubation)

Also, these requirements are re-cast in the form of [several issues](https://github.com/orgs/hpc-carpentry/projects/1/views/2) on the coordination repo.

These need to be broken down into actionable pieces, and some sense of progress arrived at. We are doing a fair amount of outreach, and doing some workshops, and some development, but maybe losing our grip on the big picture. 

As a first cut, for this session, we should generate a list of the areas which are getting the least attention, or maybe the least effective attention. The goal for today is not necessarily to break them down entirely into actionable pieces (thought that would be awesome), but to remind ourselves of what there is to do.

#### NSF CyberTraining Program

Toby and Erin Becker (Carpentries) have been working with Trevor (HPCC) on a proposal in response to the NSF [call for funding](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/training-based-workforce-development-advanced) for advanced cyberinfrastructure training, which sounds a whole lot like what we do.

Wrinkle: Trevor is a US Federal govt employee, which makes the NSF folks squirm a bit (govt agents are not supposed to influence matters before another agency, which includes taking money). At NSF office hours Monday, 16 Dec., Erin asked clarifying questions. NSF staff answered, but further conversations and clarifications are needed.
Trevor (and other Federal employees) can participate as senior contributors to the project; NSF is reviewing whether another agency's employee can serve as an unfunded co-PI.

Some of you have been contacted already requesting a letter of collaboration -- please provide these by 13 January if you can :heart_decoration: 


#### The Website

Consensus about the website from the [July 4 meeting](https://codimd.carpentries.org/VMqdWq7ISNiZVMQWE9OSWA) was that the website needs attention, but that we'll want to align with the revised Carpentries styling once that settles down,

Possibly a draft design or a review of the desired content might still be appropriate -- this is our "front door", and will be a natural focus of attention as we do more outreach.

Items from AT:

- Some open issues that should be addressed -> [clarify core curriculum](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/79), [clarify lesson maintainers](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/78)
- I agree with [#79](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/79) that the lessons page is very difficult to parse. Clarifying the core HPC Carpentry curriculum (and the status of its lessons) would help. I'd recommend mirroring the structure of SWC (https://software-carpentry.org/lessons/)
- Are there designated website owners/maintainers responsible for updating/approving MRs? Could make this clear on the website e.g. on https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/maintainers/ -> list lesson maintainers & website maintainers
- It's not clear who is in charge of the group (the [governance site](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/governance/) just links to a GH issue) -> a list of steering committee members and any affiliated orgs would be useful here.
- There are a number of issues which look stale, these should be triaged and either closed/assigned
- There is a stale MR ([steering committee charter](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/pull/73)) which might need attention


---

## Incubation Checklist

From the [Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#phase-2-incubation), __the Lesson Project will complete the following tasks:__

#### 1. Policies and Processes

*to ensure compliance with existing Carpentries policies and processes*
   
- [x] Agree to abide by The Carpentries Code of Conduct (CoC)
- [x] Agree to have at least one trained instructor for each workshop
- [x] Agree to The Carpentries workshop fee structure
- [x] Define at least one curriculum that fits The Carpentries two-day workshop structure
- [x] Agree for the Lesson Project to be included in Organizational Membership agreements

##### Policies Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/132>

- [ ] Formalize our commitments in the Charter and on our website.

#### 2. Governance

*to ensure consistency with existing lesson program governance, and accountability for leading the work during Incubation*
   
- [ ] Establish a culturally and linguistically diverse Lesson Program Committee (LPC) of at least three people to serve as a governance body and point of contact with The Carpentries.
- [ ] The LPC should create a document describing this groupâ€™s roles and responsibilities.
- [x] The LPC should meet at least quarterly to oversee Lesson Project activities.
- [x] The LPC must demonstrate experience having discussions and making decisions by providing The Carpentries Core Team and Board of Directors with access to meeting minutes.

##### Governance Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/133>

- [ ] [Elections! and Charter, not in that order](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/144)

#### 3. Contributions

*to ensure a community of sufficient size and health exists to support the new Lesson Program after adoption*

- [ ]  Assign at least three maintainers to maintain each of the lessons, without unreasonable overlap between the maintainer teams of each lesson (i.e. the same people maintaining multiple lessons)
- [ ] Create an onboarding document and process for existing Carpentries instructors so that they can determine whether or not they should consider teaching these lessons
- [ ] Create a plan to recruit additional instructors for the program
- [ ] Create a plan to recruit new contributors to the programâ€™s lessons
- [ ] Demonstrate community support for the lessons (for example by providing metrics on GitHub activity, attendance at collaboration sessions, feedback from instructors, or similar metrics)

##### Contributions Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/134>

#### 4. Teaching

*to ensure quality of curriculum, and demand for workshops*

- [ ] Run pilot workshops to gather feedback on the curriculum and confirm that it is ready for teaching by the Instructor community
- [ ] Collect and analyze post-workshop feedback
- [ ] Complete and refine core curriculum, incorporating relevant workshop feedback
- [ ] Assign one or two leads for workshop coordination and communications work
- [ ] A list of workshops run during the Incubation Phase, or in the past year (whichever is the longer period of time)
- [ ] A list of organizations which have expressed interest in hosting centrally organized workshops using the Lesson Projectâ€™s curriculum
- [ ] A list of people who are able to teach the Lesson Projectâ€™s curriculum/curricula, whether or not they are already certified Carpentries Instructors
- [ ] Provide details of any special requirements for the Lesson Projectâ€™s workshops, for example resources or infrastructure that The Carpentries would need to provide for workshops to succeed.

##### Teaching Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/135>

#### 5. Supplementary Materials

- [ ] Letters of interest from organizations wanting to host workshops. These letters of interest might indicate that the organisation
- [ ] Summary of where funding support has been sought for this work, whether or not applications were successful
- [ ] Summary of how personal time has been dedicated to this project (i.e. how much has been volunteer hours and how much has been supported through employers) - if supported by employers, what is the outlook for that support continuing?
- [ ] Summary of any infrastructure needs for supporting the Lesson Projectâ€™s workshops, along with a list of community members who are able to help fulfill any special requirements described in 4.8 above, and/or a plan for onboarding other community members to support it

##### Supplementary Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/136>

---

## 13:00 CET Session([VTC][zoom_early])

### Particpants 

* Andrew Reid, HPC Carpentry Steering Committee member
* Trevor Keller, HPC Carpentry Steering Committee member
* Jannetta Steyn, Head of Training and Community at Uni Newcastle RSE, UK
* Marc-AndrÃ© Hermanns, RWTH Aachen University, Germany (he/him)
* Clark Gaylord
* Joseph Creech, HPC Engineer at GW, recent instructor trainee.
* Martin Errenst, University of Wuppertal, Germany
* Alan O'Cais, HPC Carpentry Steering Committee member
* Toby Hodges
* Benson Muite
* Jean Chang, Broad Institute, US (she/her)

### Introductions!

Good turnout for this meeting, with some new and several returning faces.

### HPC Intro Lesson Development 

There was a brief (?) background on how we got here, for newcomers in the meeting.

Current status: The [development repo](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake) has three versions of the scheduler episode. It's derived from the EPCC version of the lesson, which has slightly different content from our HPCC version.

The three versions of the scheduler episode are separate files in this repo. The EPCC one uses the corresponding EPCC config file, epcc_config.yaml, also in the repo at the same level.

For the new, starting HPCC version, `hpcc-scheduler.Rmd`, is the EPCC scheduler file with a different config file, `lesson_config.yaml`, but is architecturally the same.

The emerging model might be that there will ultimately be a single config file for each site.

Q1: What happens if you make a mistake and try to use a variable that's not present in the config file?

Q2: Can configurations be hierarchical, i.e. can you read in a "base" config file, and then overwrite the parts you care about with a site-specific custom file? This might help manage merge conflicts as new sites contribute to upstream.

A (Jean): Unclear if the hierarchical thing works. You can have multiple config files and just read them all in. If they share a name space, then the second file ought to just overwrite the data from the first one?

Marc-Andre: A hierarchical scheme with inheritance would help with localization, a given site manager would not have to change the base file, if it were architected correctly. 

Alan: There's possibly an issue with naming things -- the name of the site should also be a config variable, and will tell the lessons which file to load without having to edit the lesson file itself. 

Trevor: The old snippets did this, successive loads overwrote data from previous loads.

Possible architecture: Top level is the scheduler, e.g. `slurm.yaml`, which will have a filename for `local.yaml`, which is site-specific.

Additional feature: Put the config files in a special config directory, for better isolation. 

Additional possibility: (Marc AndrÃ©) Use git submodules for the site-specific material, for even better isolation. Generally cautious response to this, the virtues of isolation are clear, but possibly submodules introduce complexity and forces workshop developers to use unfamiliar tools, which might scare them off. Alternatively, we might have local customization files that are empty, which has the same virtues of not having merge conflicts, without requiring submodule tooling.

Marc-AndrÃ© reiterates that submodules are not actually required in his proposed model, it's a the discretion of a workshop developer, but would have considerable advantages.

### Conferences and Outreach

The proposal for the "HPC Carpentry Community Meeting" at deRSE'25 in Karlsruhe, Germany that Marc-AndrÃ© shepherded has been accepted.

Alan was contacted by Samantha Witke from CSE in Finland, about a minisymposium at [PASC](https://pasc25.pasc-conference.org/submission/guidelines-for-minisymposia/) in Switzerland, he (Alan) can't get involved. There's an early January deadline. The minisymposium is "Building Expertise for Sustainable High Performance Software: Building Expertise".

Followup: Toby has resources to possibly attend and will engage.

#### SC24: 

Action item still to reach out to NERSC folks, especially Heather He.

#### NSF CyberTraining Funding Opportunity

*follow up with Clark Gaylord, who seems to have a better perspective*

The US National Science Foundation has an _Increasing high-performance computing capability for research through community-led training_ funding call, deadline mid-January.  ([NSF 23-520](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/training-based-workforce-development-advanced/nsf23-520/solicitation#elig), CyberTraining)

The Carpentries wants to use this opportunity

Erin and Toby working on it from The Carpentries side, Trevor contributing on behalf of the HPC Carpentry Steering Committee. We are a good fit, but competition will be fierce. Unfortunately, NSF are not able (or willing?) to give funds to NIST, so Trevor cannot be a PI on the call. We identified exceptions to their rules, which we thought could apply to allow Trevor to be a co-PI, but the Program Officers... disagreed with that assessment.

- Possibility of an inter-agency agreement? --> I don't 
- or a "match"? That would require NIST to buy in. Possibly re-label the money paying Trevor's salary as a "match" for the NSF.


Trevor & Erin were at the NSF Office Hour recently asking pointed question on whether Trevor could be funded by the CyberTraining fund. The NSF response was "no" to fund NIST employee for this proposed project. The program officer's guidance was: They do not closely look at the budget during the proposal review; they would rank the proposal based on its pure merit; and they might work with us if the proposal is to be selected for funding.

NIST has approved the involvement of Trevor to work on this project. They will be willing to support Trevor to work on this transition.

Letters of support -- reach out to Wirawan for one of these? [Wirawan]: I will write this letter of support, ODU management has provided approval.

Wirawan will be happy to review the proposal draft before it is submitted to give suggestions.

Additional potential proposal, maybe a BoF at ISC? Deadline is also the middle of January. ISC is more HPC-focused but less Carpentries-focused than deRSE, so potentially complementary. M-A will likely be at ISC anyways, so maybe that's enough of a hook? Deadline is Jan. 22.

## 17:00 EST Session([VTC][zoom_late])

### Participants

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid, NIST
- Steve Maxwell, NIST
- Erin Becker, The Carpentries
- Mark Ciechanowski
- Wirawan Purwanto, Old Dominion University

### HPC Intro Lesson Development

Jean Chang reviewed the state earlier; outstanding items include
1. Where to store the config files, and what to name them?
2. If there are "slurm" and "gridengine" defaults (for example), how to over-load the default values with site-specific values, but keep the rest? (Jekyll handled this, surely Rmd can as well!)
3. Port the rest of the episodes from Jekyll to Workbench.

### NSF CyberTraining Program activity

Erin Becker says the plan was to submit the proposal to NSF with Trevor and Erin as co-PIs, notwithstanding the NSF's apparent discomfort with this arrangement. It's high-value for Trevor to be a co-PI due to his active & crucial involvment with the HPC Carpentry Steering Committee for quite a few years.

Wirawan: Has been a co-PI on three of these, two of which were funded. It's his understanding that NSF does not allow external funding. If this is the case, then the matching thing that was discussed in the morning session might not work.

Erin: During the office-hours, the emphasis from NSF was on the merit of the contribution, and there was a general sense that for us to be distracted by anxiety about funding sources is a poor use of our time and attention.

Wirawan: Can somebody else bear the work (particularly the time-consuming part), to get around the NSF's concerns about Federal employees? We could use the NSF money to hire them, maybe from the Carpentries community somehow?

A: This is possible, but we are not short of labor hours, Trevor is supported by NIST to do this, and is in a strong position to be effective in the role.

Wirawan confirms he will get a letter of support out also. He's also interested in seeing the proposal and giving feedback -- this is welcome, Erin and Trevor think they will have something shareable by Jan. 8 or so.

### Conferences and Outreach

#### ISC'24

Reviewed the deadlines for submissions (BoF, etc.) Deadline is Jan 12.

Toby is planning to be at ISC'24. We are strongly considering a BoF for that.


### Website

Other lesson programs have revamped the website based on the new Carpentries template.

After SC'23 we got some issues noted by people whom we invited to check out the website -- some of these issues have been addressed but some are not.


### Using Carpentries infrastructure?

We have cross-blog posts already (Toby wrote recently, ...).

Can we plug into Carpentries infrastructure? It's a significant project to do this, there are automation hooks and tools.


### New Business: Addressing point 4 of incubation requirement ""

1. How can we track the pilot workshops?

2. How to collect the feedback? And to analyze?

    - this has been done ad-hoc (e.g. LLNL feedback => in the form of stickies) (it is in the Coordination repo)

3. Note: Workshops using the Incubator materials can register as self-organized workshop. In the "workshop type" you put in "Mix & Match". In this way, we can track the workshop teaching activities. Erin Becker will confirm and follow up.

    - We can retroactively self-register previous workshops

4. Question: in the offering of workshops during the incubation period, what specific things are the Carpentries going to look for? A: This is documented in the incubation process, [here](https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-development-training/preparing.html#feedback-collection-plan).

   -  Aside: [Template for Notes from Observing a Pilot Workshop](https://codimd.carpentries.org/lesson-pilot-observation-notes-template) is really handy!!!

  - There is also a [template for post-workshop surrvey for lesson pilots](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1OGCQBotD2nOJkc7KpFZLhFfb3EBcxEDwHz_3p48qz3U/template/preview) that could be used as a starting point.

---

<!-- Administrata -->

[gcal]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[hpc-cluster]: https://cluster.hpc-carpentry.org

<!--HPC Carpentry Repositories-->
[coordination]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination
[proposals]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/labels/proposal
[hpc-chapel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel
[hpc-intro]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[hpc-parallel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice
[hpc-python]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python
[hpc-shell]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell
[hpc-workflows]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows

<!--HPC Carpentry Issues-->
[coordination-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues
[hpc-chapel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel/issues
[hpc-intro-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues
[hpc-parallel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice/issues
[hpc-python-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python/issues
[hpc-shell-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell/issues
[hpc-workflows-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues

<!--Other-->
[genomics-workshop]: https://datacarpentry.org/genomics-workshop/
[nextflow-lesson]: https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/workflows-nextflow/

<!--Carpentries References-->
[conduct]: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html
[invite]: https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/
[ldh]: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#lesson-programs
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com

:::info
__Use of this service is restricted to members of The Carpentries community__.

Users are expected to follow our __[Code of Conduct][conduct]__.

All content is publicly available under the [Creative Commons Attribution License][license].
:::

:::danger
__This server is not backed up!__

The Carpentries is not responsible for any data loss.
:::
