# HPCC Meeting, Mar. 7, 2024

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds meetings on the first and third Thursday
of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate coverage for
our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the least-painful
coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica and aboard a
space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EDT][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240307T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240307T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-meeting]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/BffbHVUCSPGd-q5faqUmKQ

---

## Agenda

### The Website

Our main [webiste](https://hpc-carpentry.org) has gotten a bit stale over the
past while. This agenda item is motivated in part by some work that Alan O'Cais
already did getting the workshop list updated, but also it has come up at
various times in recent meetings.

The proposed task is to identify remediable issues with the site, and get those
recorded as issues in the repo.

### Workflow lesson development

The workflow lesson has now been taught once! And there's a
[giant PR](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/pull/14) on
it! It's currently in "draft" status pending a resolution of some attribution
issues. There was a plan for this at the [last meeting][last-meeting], has this
been executed? What are the other barriers to merging, and can we capture them
in the PR?

### Workshops

There are a few workshops in the offing. Annajiat has an on-going effort, Alan
has the February CECAM one, and there is a possibility of an LLNL workshop in
the late spring, as well as probably a NIST workshop in more or less the same
time-frame.

On-going logistical discussions are welcome in this agenda slot.

### Conferences -- SCA2024, and SC24? Others?

The SCA2024 presentation happened, it was a bit more hands-off than expected
since the Zoom room was unpopulated, due to organizaitonal constraints at the
conference. No Q&A traffic at the mailing address, but some positive feedback
from the organizers!

Also, a message in the slack suggested we might want to do a tutorial at SC24
in Atlanta, deadlines are April-ish. How do we want to engage at SC24? A
tutorial, as suggested? Hook up with the education folks again, if possible?
Try for another BoF?

Are there other outreach channels we should explore? PEARC?

The NHR (German National High Performance Initiative) has a booth at
[ISC'24 in Hamburg, Germany](https://www.isc-hpc.com/). NHR conducts so-called
"Sofa Talks" at their booth which are basically invited discussion groups
around a specific topic (no public interaction involved--although people
interested in the discussion may listen in if they like). Together with Julian
Kunkel, Marc-André organizes one sofa talk about "Certification of an HPC
Curriculum" (title may still be subject to change). Julian leads the
[HPC Certification Forum](https://www.hpc-certification.org/) and Marc-André
maintains the Software Development branch of the
["Skill Tree"](https://www.hpc-certification.org/cs/map/). In this sofa talk,
we want to get different people of different organizations involved with
teaching HPC courses and skills together and talk about the skill trees and see
how courses match the tree: do we teach aspects that are not reflected in the
skill tree [I know there are, as it's still in development :wink:]? Are there
skills that we currently don't teach? Would anyone from the Carpentries be at
ISC and interested in joining the discussion?

### Bioinformatics

This item is pending from earlier meetings, updates appreciated.

The [bioinformatics lesson][genomics-workshop] could/should be adopted to run
on an HPC/big data stack. Currently, each person uses a separate VM (Ubuntu
16.04). A cloud cluster would likely reduce cost as compute cores and memory
can be released. For US Department of Agriculture, a number of people would
benefit from a shell lesson as a separate portion before moving into
bioinformatics portion. Having the software available in conda, modules, a
singularity container and a guix container would enable the lesson to be taught
in a portable manner.

Many people in this audience use Nextflow, and the [Nextflow
lesson][nextflow-lesson] would be a good fit for an HPC and Big Data
Curriculum. Should reach out to the lesson developers.

### Speaking Invitation

Carried over from last time, Scott Callaghan from the
[SIGHPC Education](https://sighpceducation.acm.org/) chapter of the ACM has
invited Andrew to give a talk about HPC Carpentry as part of their speaker
series, possibly paired with another speaker who has used the material, which
the organizers have volunteered to find. This sounds like an excellent idea,
but it doesn't have to be Andrew who does it.

Timing remains uncertain, we are in the early stages of this conversation.

### Governance

Carried over from last time, where due to time it didn't get a ton of traction.

Now that we are out from the holiday disruptions and have a bit of time to
think, we should probably re-engage with the governance issue. If we're going
to be in the Carpentries umbrella, we will want to ensure that our lessons
continue to abide by Carpentries guidelines, and that contributors feel
welcome. We will also want to be in a posiiton where we can track our
activities and demonstrate impact, which will require some reporting and
book-keeping, which some entity should own.

---

## 13:00 CET Session

### Participants

- Alan O'Cais (he/him), CECAM
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Craig Gross (he/him), MSU
- Jannetta Steyn (she/her), Newcastle University (UK)
- Benson Muite

### The website

Picked on Craig about maybe raising some issues on the
[website repo](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io), this
was discussed previously, and Craig is in a good position to do this, he's
invested in the project's success and also comes to it with fresh eyes.

There's a registration form on our site, there was a question about whether
this is connected with the
[Carpentries form,](https://carpentries-incubator.org/) which Toby H. uses to
track activity which helps him get a sense of what's going on with the various
lessons in the incubator. We can do this.

### Workflow Lesson Development

The plan remains to fix the attribution, putting it in the README and in the
repos, so it's globally visible in the rendered and pre-rendered lesson, and
then merge the PR, and fix the issues afterwards.

Craig is also interested in looking over the workflow lesson and contributing
issues and PRs.

### Conferences

SCA2024 worked, there's positive feedback from the organizers, though the Zoom
thing didn't work out, and there has been no Q&A traffic.

#### SC24?

> SC24: Nov 11-17, Atlanta, GA

Strategically a good move. If you get a tutorial, the organization pays for
your travel. Our intro workshop is a full day, that's a fairly large slot, it's
not obvious how much of a draw we would be, and our intended audience is
newcomers, which is probably not the typical SC24 attendee.

Maybe a "train the trainer" workshop? Might be a better match with the SC24
attendee pool. Maybe someone from Carpentries could also attend, attractive if
travel is covered.

Jannetta: Conventional for instructor training to be done through the
Carpentries themselves, this is maybe more of a Carpentries activity than an
HPCC activity? Also it's normally a two-day event.

The training of trainers is a thing that will have to happen at some point,
though.

Jannetta: Has been thinking of doing something for SC24 involving the _MiniHPC_
set-up, maybe a tutorial on that? If you do EESSI, you get everything we need,
because the new changes to the workflow lesson are based on that. There are a
couple of instances of the hardware out there, Janetta has two (one not running
yet), and there's another elsewhere in the UK.

Tutorial submission deadline is April 19.

Craig: At the last SC, there was a
["parallel computing 101"](https://sc23.conference-program.com/presentation/?id=tut114&sess=sess222),
which was very basic and also quite well-attended, sort of survey of parallel
computing technologies. So maybe novice material isn't such a crazy idea? Maybe
talk to them about how this works?

Engage with the SIGHPC education, maybe ping them and see what their SC plans
are, and if there's a role for us? Reach out to Scott Callaghan and see what
their SC24 plans? Talk to Code Refinery, which isn't Carpentries but works at
scale?

#### Others? ISC 2024?

ISC 2024 proposal deadlines are all past. But maybe hooking up with the "sofa
talk" or coordinating with someone who is already going, similar to what we did
for SCAsia 2024?

#### Instructor training sidebar

Could the Carpentries offer us some instructor-training slots that we could use
to grow our instructor base? If we could identify people with the HPC skill-set
already, this would help build out the intersection of skills.

#### Carpentries?

There's Carpentry Connect, look into that and see if there are opportunities,
global, local, or regional events in places where we have a presence?

Maybe do a workshop? Alan thinks there's maybe an opportunity in November in
Heidelberg.

### Bioinformatics

This is existing material that could be incorporated into our material somehow.
If someone were willing to reach out to them, since their institutional
constraints might be similar. The group teaches this lesson, would teach it
regularly, probably 2x per year, but the lesson is not really part of any
curriculum. It's maybe reasonably natural for us, and the participants might be
valuable additions to our community.

Objective seems to be to find a "home" for the lesson, but does this mean we
commit to maintenance on it? We have limited bandwidth and our core strategic
material is already more than we can maintain reliably.

Action: Benson can arrange introductions, and we'll start the conversation and
see where it goes. At a minimum, listing their lesson and sharing our tools and
practices seems easy, if that's useful, and maybe there's more.

### Speaking invitation

Reminder here to reach out to Scott Callaghan about SIGHPC Education's SC24
plans.

### Governance

Andrew provided a somewhat wooly narrative about governance being about owning
the project and telling the story of what the project is about, and what's
inside and outside.

General sense is that this is a promising direction, and can be developed
further.

## 17:00 EST Session

### Participants

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Jane Herriman, LLNL

### The Website

Craig has some traffic already, PRs and/or issues. Alan will followup on moving
the database of workshops to The Carpentries.

### Workflow lesson development

Alan will put in attribution info for the content we built on, then merge the
PR and start on follow-up edits.

### Workshops

No discussion this morning. Jane Herriman is on in the later session, maybe
input? No near-term news.

There's pending development to do, and also a quesiton about whether the lesson
works on the LLNL systems (are we OK with Snakemake, or do we need to port to
something else?).

### Conferences

SCA2024 happened. For SC24, a MiniHPC jointly between Jannetta and the main HPC
team would be cool, that's moving forward. Also connect with SIGHPC Education.
Also, Carpentries activities?

### Bionformatics

Content is aligned with what we're doing, not clear how to engage, can we just
link to it? We are not in a position to maintain it, but could maybe assist
with edits? Could they use our cloud infrastructure tools?

### Speaking invitation

SIGHPC Education is still a go, timing uncertain.

### Governance

Demonstrating impact, wooly narratives.

> _Governance_ is the Scope Police.
>
> -- Andrew (also the scope police)

---

<!-- Administrata -->

[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[hpc-cluster]: https://cluster.hpc-carpentry.org

<!--HPC Carpentry Repositories-->

[coordination]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination
[proposals]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/labels/proposal
[hpc-chapel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel
[hpc-intro]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[hpc-parallel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice
[hpc-python]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python
[hpc-shell]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell
[hpc-workflows]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows

<!--HPC Carpentry Issues-->

[coordination-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues
[hpc-chapel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel/issues
[hpc-intro-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues
[hpc-parallel-issues]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice/issues
[hpc-python-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python/issues
[hpc-shell-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell/issues
[hpc-workflows-issues]:
  https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues

<!--Other-->

[genomics-workshop]: https://datacarpentry.org/genomics-workshop/
[nextflow-lesson]: https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/workflows-nextflow/

<!--Carpentries References-->

[conduct]:
  https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html
[invite]: https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/
[ldh]:
  https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#lesson-programs
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com
