---
layout: page
url: https://codimd.carpentries.org/_GcvhRerT4aGX7vnTxI4iA
---

# November 2020 HPC Carpentries Task Force Meeting

We will hold an HPC Carpentries task force meeting on Tuesday, November
17, 2020.

## Date

The results of the date poll are visible
[here](http://whenisgood.net/stdfe2y/results/575mhiq), Nov. 17 is a reasonably
clear least-bad day.

## Time

There are two time-slots, one at
[1200 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201117T1200&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination)
hosted by Benson Muite and Annajiat Alim Rasel, and one at
[2200 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201117T2200&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination)
hosted by Andrew Reid. The previously-expected 0800 UTC time-slot is cancelled
in favor of the 1200 UTC one.

---

## Participants

### 1200 UTC

- Trevor Keller (he/him), NIST CTCMS, Maryland, U.S.A.
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), JSC, Juelich, Germany
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries. Toby is located in Heidelberg, Germany
- Peter Steinbach (he/him), HZDR, Dresden, Germany
- Benson Muite, Nairobi, Kenya
- Annajiat Alim Rasel, Brac University, Dhaka, Bangladesh
- Mahmoud Warda

### 2200 UTC

- Andrew Reid (he/him) NIST CTCMS, Washington DC (ish)
- Trevor Keller (he/him), NIST CTCMS, Germantown MD
- Wirawan Purwanto, Old Dominion U., Norfolk VA

---

## Agenda & Notes

People are invited to raise agenda items in the period leading up to the
meeting, via issues in the
[coordination repo](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination), by editing
the text below, via the #hpc-carpentry channel on the
[Carpentries slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com), or via the
[discuss-hpc](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc) mailing list
on Topicbox.

As a starting point, there are three main areas of discussion which carry over
from previous meetings.

### 2200 UTC session sidebar

We had a brief discussion of Wirawan Purwanto's project, DeapSECURE
("Data-Enabled Advanced [Computational] Training Platform for Cybersecurity
Research & Education" <https://deapsecure.gitlab.io>), and its relationship to
HPC, and whether it should be in the incubator. There is obviously some
relationship: Big Data, machine learning, tightly-coupled MPI are useful
substrates for cyber-security computations. Lessons in DeapSECURE can be used
as "basic training" in common computational techniques after learners take the
basic hpc-intro lesson. Wirawan is interested in engaging with Carpentries &
HPC-Carpentry community. Please email <wpurwant@odu.edu> if you are interested
to learn more about the lessons & the project, or to use to the lessons.

### State of the Lessons

We have had a number of co-working hours now, and some work has been done, but
attendance has been lower than expected, and there has been a focus on
infrastructure (a logo, the hpc-carpentries.org site). These contributions are
definitely valued, do we also want to try to steer contributions more towards
lesson development and content and issue resolution?

- Alan: With low attendance, we don't need three sessions.
  - having three slots makes the co-working more convenient for different
    geographical regions.
- Trevor: co-working sessions have been mostly discussion, less active work on
  the material. Low attendance but still more activity than we had on the
  lesson before we established co-working hours.
  - Our agendas have been an hour's worth of talking, leaving no time to code /
    hack on the lessons.
  - Maybe try setting a specific agenda for 20 min., and 40 min. of
    unstructured time?
- Peter: would be nice to give more direction on where contributions could be
  made. (this) Taskforce is the place where we should make these decisions.
- Annajiat: perhaps we can set a goal for each co-working session?
- Andrew 2200: Revive github projects for this?

#### Goals for co-working sessions: 26 Nov & 8 Dec

1. hpc-carpentry.org ownership & maintenance (Alan O'Cais)
   - Currently a fork & derivative work of the Carpentries website
2. Moving lessons into Carpentries Incubator (Annajiat, Trevor, & Toby)
   - Relay to Wirawan re. [DeapSECURE](https://deapsecure.gitlab.io/)
3. Conceptual Work & Lesson Design
   ([this blog post](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/blog/2020/11/hpccarpentry-lesson-development/)
   is related)
   - What parts are missing?
   - Do the exercises fit the lesson goals?
   - Isolating what's still missing?
4. Triage & address open Issues on the repositories (Endorsed by Andrew)
5. Preliminary timing of how long each lesson/episode takes to teach
   - Dry run of the lessons, with feedback?
   - Proposal: have those who are (actually) teaching the lessons to feed the
     timing back to the community (e.g. report as an issue in the repo, along
     with challenges, what working/not working)
   - When we transfer a repository's ownership to The Carpentries, are Issues &
     Pull Requests preserved?
6. Site localization, e.g. for Wirawan's cluster(s) at ODU.
   - Fork the lesson as a template, once for each cluster, and set the
     appropriate flag values in `_config.yml` or `.gitlab-ci.yml` so that your
     Jekyll engine builds the correct version for each
   - It would be worthwhile for someone (Trevor) to work through & document the
     step-by-step workflow.

### Scope sidebar

The 2200 UTC meeting had a discussion on the relevance of containers for HPC
workflow -- right now, this feels like an advanced topic, but if it eases
access to HPC for non-HPC users, it might be (or become) an introductory topic.
ODU is interested, and CTCMS has a pending container-based use-case.

### Interactions with the Carpentries

Is the sense of the community that we should enter the incubator? Which
lessons?

- Toby suggests all of them.
  - Common misconception is that lessons should only enter once they're in a
    developed state. Carpentries' intent is to either start new lessons in the
    incubator, or move them in as early as feasible. Requirements to enter are
    minimal, and it makes a single point of reference for community members to
    see what's under development.
  - If we're going to transfer one of them, we should transfer all of them, so
    folks coming along to help in the Incubator can find & help fix related
    issues across all of them.
- intro & shell at least

- Are there any signup services that are good to use for workshops? eventbrite?
  - The Carpentries [mailing lists](https://carpentries.topicbox.com) might be
    the place to announce these, or some other distribution list with a more
    narrowly-defined scope
  - Conceivably, create a newlist on Topicbox for the area of interest.

Some lessons adjacent to our interests have appeared in the incubator recently
([Parallel Python](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/lesson-parallel-python)
and [GPU Speedups](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/gpu-speedups)),
does the presence of these lessons change our plans? Should we go faster or
slower, change our focus?

- Both nice lessons, we can hope that either of these folks can contribute the
  lessons to HPC Carpentry, but we don't have resources to devote to helping
  develop.
- We can provide pointers out of our lessons at relevant points for learners to
  explore more.

- when piloting material yourself (what The Carpentries calls "alpha testing"),
  here is some guidance on what to keep track of
  https://cdh.carpentries.org/the-lesson-life-cycle.html#field-testing-alpha-stage

### Governance

We now have identified some good resources on open-source governance (thanks
Toby!).

- [Opensource.org](https://opensource.guide/leadership-and-governance/)
  leadership document
- [TeachTogether](http://teachtogether.tech/en/index.html#s:community-governance)
  community-governance guide
- [The Turing Way](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/collaboration/new-community/new-community-guide.html)
  guide for new communities.

What can we learn from these resources? A theme that recurs in these is more
formal lists of members, and distinct roles, e.g. maintainers and commiters. Do
we want a more formal leadership team? How can we reconcile this with a low
barrier to contributions and better diversity?

One lesson is, ideas should be cast in an actionable form, so that community
members can endorse or object, or start working on them. Once things are
actionable, it's easier to vote on them.

- Shall someone talk to Kari Jordan about governance? (Peter has volunteered.)
  - before speaking to Kari, take a few minutes to read this (about the process
    of establishing a new Lesson Program)
    https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#lesson-program-incubation-roadmap
- Benson: Carpentries has done well because they have a good structure.
  Consider putting a deadline of January to read & process these resources, and
  speak with Kari.
- Toby: More structure & clearly defined roles in meetings like this one, so we
  make sure everyone has an equal opportunity to contribute, and facilitate
  voting. Since these are split between multiple time zones, how to collect,
  filter duplicates, and call votes? Need some sort of system.

### Audio/Video Platforms

There's been some experimentation.

- Slack
- Jitsi Meet
- Google Meet
- Big Blue Button? This is designed for teaching and can be self hosted. Also
  includes persistent chat and note pad.
  - Has this been successfully tested?
  - Please use CodiMD for chat & notes.

Some analysis of accessibility of different platforms (from ACM sigHPC); focus
on members with disabilities:

***https://youtu.be/49Li32o-kLo***

Ranking as of 6 November 2020:

- **Avoid** these at all costs, for accessibility:
  - Slack. No "landmarks" for screen reader to use, just a solid block. Would
    have to read through everything to figure it out. Terribly inefficient to
    navigate.
  - WebEx
  - GoToMeeting. Screen reader sees the app as a blank window! Browser
    interface is marginally better.
- **Good** Contenders:
  - Zoom
  - Microsoft Teams
  - Google Meet

## HPC Carpentry Logo

[**_Go vote!_**](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/28#issuecomment-729227473)
