# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 17 August 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CEST][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EDT][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230817T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230817T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/CG-3HH5zSj2ZQp3JXHqlwA
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/YkdExMDZSBORjXNuGpiYag
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

The agenda items are mostly a return to previous issues, now that the
excitement of the SC23 proposals is behind us. This might make this more of a
co-working meeting.

### Lesson Program Commmittee Charter Documents

Andrew and Trevor have a to-do item about drafting committee charters,
anticipating a more formal organization as we align with the Carpentries. We
don't have to follow the Lesson Development Handbook, but we should ensure that
the responsibilities described have some organizational support.

There is an
[issue on the coordination repo](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/123)
about these charters, which also includes a link to the
[charter for the existing steering committee](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/blob/committee-charter/pages/governance.md),
which is slightly out of date, not reflecting the most recent elections.

### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

Work on setting up snippets for the new cloud environment, and making that the
default, is underway, including reducing the number and scope of the snippets.
Comments and discussion on this effort are welcome.

There is a
[proposal](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/122), the focus
of which is on the snippet library currently in use in our [HPC
Intro][intro-lesson] lesson, but which could be adapted to the new lesson.

Many resources have been ID'd on the
[slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T) also.

### Updates to the Workflow Lesson

The strategic plan includes a workshop that includes the [workflow
lesson][workflow-lesson], and development of this is a logical priority at this
point.

There has been some recent progress.

---

## 1300 CEST Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Benson Muite, Kichakato Kizito
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Annajiat Alim Rasel, BRAC University

### Updates

Benson Muite reports that the CARLA proposal did not get accepted.

### Committee Charters

Taking a step back from the administrative process, we can think about what the
roles are meant to accomplish. There are "tactical" issues, i.e. actual lesson
maintenance, responding to issues, whether arising from red stickies in
workshops or text review of the lesson.

Andrew thought we had a pithy description of the roles of "governance" and
"curriculum development", but we don't seem to have those handy.

The [actual proposal](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request) to
The Carpentries does not propose a committee structure of this type, it's
mostly descriptive of how we operate now (or did at the time of the proposal),
our lesson development strategy, and goals.

A successful pithy description would provide guidance as to which role (if any)
a task belongs to. Possible divisions are, you could say that the governance
committee is "strategic" whereas the development committee is "tactical", or
alternatively, that the governance committee is "outward-facing" (soliciting
funding, feedback, etc.) whereas the development committee is "inward-facing",
focusing on lesson construction and edits. Or, maybe the governance role is
"goals" and the development role is "means"?

Of these, the "outward" vs "inward" seems like it's got the most potential to
help organize things.

Terminology is a sticking point, it can get in the way of clarity. Possibly we
should keep the name "steering committee" and have lesson program governance be
one of the things they do, in their outward-facing role.

Actual plan: Trevor and Andrew renew their commitment to nailing this down, in
light of today's useful discussion. High-level descriptions are good, but
considerations of member workload for the actual activities should also be kept
in mind.

### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

So far the new workbench has only been exercised by this group for the workflow
lesson, which does not (yet) span multiple queuing systems, so the expected
collision between the snippet scheme and the new lesson architecture hasn't
happened yet.

This will likely come up soon in the context of the R lesson, for Benson.
Provisional plan is to use drop-downs for different queuing systems (slurm vs.
pbs-torque), but within each system, be generic.

An open question is the necessary level of detail. Obviously the different
queuing systems are important, since that changes what you actually type and
the format of the output.

At the other end of the level-of-detail spectrum, having the correct head-node
and node names in the example text is something the current lesson does. This
leads to a fairly high level of complexity in the snippets, makes them hard to
navigate, and is perhaps superfluous detail.

A question arises also as to what scope the customization should be in -- do we
want a single source file with drop-downs visible to learners at "run-time"
(i.e. in the workshop), or do we want a config file that gets set up and
executes the customization at "build-time", making them evident to workshop
organizers but not to learners.

A second question is whether the platform- or site-customization is something
we want to own, or push upstream to the workbench as a whole.

There are of course competing issues -- on the one hand, customizability adds
to the workshop organizer workload, but on othe other hand, some organizers do
want customization, and if we don't provide a channel for this, they may fork
the lesson to accommodate their own customizations, which makes
re-syncrhonization more difficult and adds friction to an important feedback
path.

Possibly resolveable by some tricky repository structure where there's a "core"
repository with the lesson content, and a "site" repository which has
non-pedagogical site-specific content, and can be forked and splintered
arbitrarily because merging site-specific details back upstream is not
high-value.

#### Action item

- Investigate what flexibility is present or can be added to the workbench to
  allow snippet customization, would also be useful for SWC Shell lesson setup
- Spell checker
- Line length checker

---

## 1700 EDT Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto (he/him), ODU

### Committee Charters

Additional info about our prior thinking on this is available from the
[May 4 co-working codi](https://codimd.carpentries.org/4W0cnVmxSuS-Q8Cg-OreUQ#Proposal-123-Charters-for-Governing-and-Curriculum-Committees),
where some pithiness was evident. Governance is described there as roughly
equivalent to the existing steering committee, and the curriculum committee
being drawn from lesson users, with an advisory role to the governance
committee. These are some roles the committees would have, but feels
incomplete.

(Also some discussion on committee on
[June 1 codi](https://codimd.carpentries.org/9pfAzI1ZTBe2QVOt-uSjsw#Committee-Charters))

1. "Governance committee" in Carpentries lingo is like our current steering
   committee. (Governance committee is required by Carpentries.) Mainly
   responsible to communicate with the Carpentries executive committee,
   planning & executing BOFs, events, publicity, obtaining resources, securing
   funding, ... This will be largely an "outward facing" committee as far as
   HPC Carpentry is concerned.

2. "Curriculum advisory committee" will be providing advise on the curriculum,
   lessons, relevancy of HPC Carpentry to the community.

3. {Optional, possibly bad idea} "Ops Committee"

From this morning, Benson's idea: Those who are lesson maintainers/developers
would meet regularly to take care of the lessons. They are ultimately
responsible for development & maintenance of the lessons, repos, etc.

Oh the other hand, "curriculum advisory committee" will draw largely from the
lesson user community to provide us inputs on things such as: what the
community needs in terms of lessons. This committee would meet less frequently,
e.g. annually or quarterly {i.e. not very frequently}. They provide input on
what (additional) lessons are necessary, or what aging lessons might be
retired. Watching out frequently appearing "red stickies" that indicate the
needs for improvement. This committee are not doing the actual work of the
lesons themselves. They will meet 1-4x a year and produce inputs that the
governance committee can consider and act upon.

The governance committee would need to heed to the curriculum advisory
committee so that HPC Carpentry can continually meet the needs of the community
(and stay relevant to them). GC is responsible to direct the resources toward
the goals.

_Possible additional strategy_: Make a list of tasks that need to happen, group
them by appropriate committee, and see if a structure emerges that can be
generalized to new tasks.

#### Why do we need committees, and what are they for?

> N.B.: we're spit-balling here, nothing is written in stone.

##### Governance

The Governance Committee _is the project_. It's responsible for money,
resources, and represents The Project to The Carpentries execs. Expected to be
relatively deep in the weeds, and may lose focus on priorities.

Key role is to secure and allocate resources?

##### Curriculum

The Curriculum Committee _is the audience_, and advocates for those people to
the Governance Committee. Role is to set the Governors back on track:
suggesting Workshop structure, recommending new lessons, suggesting sunsetting
older lessons.

Key role is to tell the Governance Committee when it's missed the mark?

These last two descriptions are similar to what is in
[Issue #123](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/123) on the
coordination repo, so this is a kind of convergence.

### Carpentries Workbench

### Workflow Lesson

### Intro to HPC Workshop on "HPC Carpentry" Cluster

Near-term plan to do workshops on Alan's cluster (cluster.hpc-carpentry.org):
Annajiat has a group of learners. Right now it is preferred to run workshops on
this cluster since it has been set up. This cluster has been up and continues
to run for now.

#### On Jetstream

We also have a small credit on Jetstream to conduct workshop on this platform.
Initially we wanted to have Infiniband (but Jetstream2 has no such
interconnect) and we also think of using GPU. We don't have both.

We could use Jetstream2 to do publicity workshops. Q: What are the audience?
for a Jetstream-based workshops.

We will need to learn & document how to set up the "HPC Carpentry" cluster the
way Alan set it up (how to _deploy MagicCastle_ on Jetstream2).

On creating a "standard cluster" -- useful for teaching diverse audiences on a
consistent environment, e.g. HPC Carpentry & DeapSecure.

---
