# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 15 June 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EDT][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

Note that Daylight Saving Time has started in the US, but that due to our
recent changes to the calendar scheme, the later meeting is still at 17:00
Eastern time, though it will have shifted by an hour for non-US locations. The
[Google Calendar][gcal] remains authoritative.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230615T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230615T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9pfAzI1ZTBe2QVOt-uSjsw
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/SIUTsoasR_q3LlmHN5NZHw
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

:::info **HPC Steering Committee Elections!**

Individuals who accepted nomination have been registered as options on the
ElectionBuddy ballot. Please vote!

https://secure.electionbuddy.com/m/HPCCarp/sc2023 :::

### Carpentries Community Meeting

This coordination meeting will follow the June 14 Carpentries community meeting
meeting,
[announced on the Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/C03LE48AY/p1684868589297399),
which some of us are planning to attend, so there may be some reporting an
discussion.

### SC23 BoF?

SC23 is in Denver, Colorado, Nov. 12-17 2023. The agenda item today is to
decide if we want to do this.

There is a July 7 deadline to submit materials for an application for a BoF at
SC23. The materials are fairly basic, they want session leader info, a topic
area, short and long abstracts, and format information. We can probably crib
this from the SC21 materials in large part.

Submission info is at the
[SC23 site](https://sc23.supercomputing.org/program/birds-of-a-feather/)

### Updates to the Workflow Lesson

The strategic plan includes a workshop that includes the [workflow
lesson][workflow-lesson], and development of this is a logical priority at this
point.

There has been some recent progress.

#### Carpentries Workbench and R-Studio on the Cloud

Alan O'Cais has generously made a cloud-based cluster available, and installed
the R-studio infrastructure on it, so account holders can do development
directly on this resource. This cluster also has `snakemake` installed, so it's
a good place to flesh out the lesson content with a fairly tight development
loop.

#### Lesson Episodes and Objectives

The current version of the [repo][workflow-lesson] has skeletal files for some
of the content outlined in
[Issue #1](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/1), so
the proposed outline is starting to take shape.

#### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

Building the new lesson on the Carpentries Workbench gives us an opportunity to
re-think how we incorporate custom content specific to particular HPC clusters
into our lesson structures. The current [intro][intro-lesson] lesson does this
with "snippets", but we have a long-standing task of reviewing this.

There is a related
[proposal](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/122), the focus
of which is on the snippet library currently in use in our [HPC
Intro][intro-lesson] lesson, but which could be adapted to the new lesson.

Many resources have been ID'd on the
[slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T) also.

---

## 1300 CEST Session

### Attendees:

- Toby Hodges (he/him)
- Alan O'Cais (he/him)
- Trevor Keller (they/them)
- Andrew Reid (he/him)
- Benson Muite

### Community Meeting

Andrew attended the Community Meeting, and asked some questions about the
difference between the curriculum advisory committee and the curriculum
maintnence group. Feedback from the executive council members was that this
split is usefully understood as strategic (advisory) vs. tactical
(maintenance). At our phase, these are different roles, or maybe different
head-spaces, rather than different people.

There was also some discussion about fundraising and what to do with money.
Jannetta Steyn said to reach out to her out-of-band, she has opinions and info
on this. The general answer is that the Carpentries folks do have experience
with grant applications, and can offer guidance and help.

- Notes are (currently) still available at
  https://pad.carpentries.org/community-discussions

### Electioneering

The Steering Committee election is live, and a few people have already voted.
Alan asked what's to stop him from voting infinity times: time, and a cap of 20
results. To get a more secure election, we would have to register each voter
ahead of time, so that unique links can be sent to each person. Toby suggests
this would be a good task for a Community Manager to perform.

### SC23

In addition to a BoF, we could also do a presentation/talk. Wirawan may have
contacts?

[Best Practices for HPC Training & Education](https://sighpceducation.acm.org/events/bphte23cfp/)
is a regular BoF, with an August 12 deadline for abstract submission. Benson
suggests it's an informal group that regularly meets online, and they're always
on the lookout for people willing to help.

Andrew will draft submission materials for the SC23
[requirements](https://sc23.supercomputing.org/program/birds-of-a-feather/),
and gather feedback through the coordination repo.

- Create a "Project" or Discussion for this?

### Workflow Lesson

Andrew has been hacking on it, using Alan's MagicCastle instance.

Alan has also been hacking on it, but is currently having issues with the
RStudio version of the workflow, getting an odd permissions problem trying to
access the 404 page that the lesson has constructed. Possibly this will go away
once the R version is updated in a couple of weeks.

### Other Items

Alan found this [HPC Certification](https://www.hpc-certification.org/)
resource (related to the
[survey](https://www.mentimeter.com/app/presentation/al1au3yfejuriwbdc1e8oyhv4vh795sh/nwsk5av4qsuo)
material posted on the Slack), the gist of which is, there should be verifiable
standards for HPC education, and lessons should be certified by some authority.
The resource is about what people should know, and be accredited.

Their [Skill Tree](https://www.hpc-certification.org/cs/#skill-tree) may be
valuable to compare against... it is incomplete. Sources for the full tree are
[on GitHub](https://github.com/HPC-certification-forum/skill-tree) (Freeplane
Mind Map code).

This is a sort of commercially professional approach that maybe has some value
at some scale, but it's hard to see how it works in e.g. an academic context,
where HPC isn't the focus but is something that people need to do their "real"
work. It's also incompatible with an open-source development model.

A possible action item for this is to have an answer for people who ask us if
we are compliant with these standards -- we are not, and we have a good reason,
it's incompatible with our academic and community-driven model. This may arise
in the SC23 context also.

Meeting attendance: Can we do a "temperature check" on the Slack channel or
something, to figure out why meeting attendance is down? Are people just busy,
or have we diverged from what they want, or something else?

Make a splash -- update the HPC Intro lesson to use the cloud cluster, make
this the official "beta" relase, and announce it to generate interest? Yes.

---

## 1700 EDT Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor Keller (they/them)
- Andrew Reid (he/him) NIST

### New Meeting Time?

Draft message for the slack:

> Dear HPC Carpenters,
>
> We have noticed that the "second session" of Coordination and Coworking Hours
> have been sparsely attended. But there's still lots of interesting work to
> do, and we know that this is important to many of you. If changing the
> meeting times from 1700 EDT to something more convenient for you, we can
> accommodate. If you have been unable to engage for some other reasons, or
> have felt alienated, we would appreciate hearing from you so that we can
> adapt.

---
