# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 21 September 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CEST][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EDT][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

Note that Daylight Saving Time has started in the US, but that due to our
recent changes to the calendar scheme, the later meeting is still at 17:00
Eastern time, though it will have shifted by an hour for non-US locations. The
[Google Calendar][gcal] remains authoritative.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/umFA8VLsRGGz5ZrZFTW0eg
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/-Au3gtExTZaidHK_bL6eQQ
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

The agenda items are mostly a return to previous issues, now that the
excitement of the SC23 proposals is actually really for-sure behind us.

### Near-term Workshop

We talked last time about doing a workshop for Annajiat's students. Some
discussion about the logistical details of that would be in order. Which
cluster? Who will instruct, who will help? What date or dates, exactly?

### Lesson Program Commmittee Charter Documents

Andrew and Trevor have a to-do item about
[drafting committee charters](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/blob/committee-charter/pages/governance.md),
anticipating a more formal organization as we align with the Carpentries. We
don't have to follow the
[Lesson Program Governor Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-governors.html),
but we should ensure that the responsibilities described have some
organizational support.

### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

Work on setting up snippets for the new cloud environment, and making that the
default, is underway, including reducing the number and scope of the snippets.
Comments and discussion on this effort are welcome.

There is a
[proposal](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/122), the focus
of which is on the snippet library currently in use in our [HPC
Intro][intro-lesson] lesson, but which could be adapted to the new lesson.

Many resources have been ID'd on the
[slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T) also.

### Updates to the Workflow Lesson

The strategic plan includes a workshop that includes the [workflow
lesson][workflow-lesson], and development of this is a logical priority at this
point.

There has been some recent progress.

---

## 1300 CEST Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/.him), CECAM
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Toby Hodges

### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

There's an
[issue](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/issues/18#issuecomment-1721491625)
on the Sandpaper repo, which is nominally about translation, but which might
provide a path forward for the kind of customization we want to do. The scheme
is, you build the "main" language, and then run a translation tool
([DeepL](https://www.deepl.com/en/translator)) that runs the translation. The
proposed scheme involves "child" documents to control scope, and we could use
that mechanism to also switch-hit different load managers.

A feature of DeepL is that you can provide it with a glossary for niche
vocabulary translations that are unlikely to have arisen in its training, and
let DeepL do the common vocabulary and grammar automatically.

There is an on-going conversation on that issue, but a complication is that
Zhian Kamvar, the principal Sandpaper dev, is leaving at the end of the
calendar year, so a realistic level of engagement is likely to be low.

Other possibilities are the efforts underway by R-Open-Sci, or changes within
the lesson at the configuration layer, possibly in combination with the
foregoing.

Alan's comments on
[our issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/122) are
reasonably up to date on this.

### Lesson Program Committee Charter Documents

There's a useful comment on the
[Coordination Repo issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/123)
outlining a separation of concerns that solves the problem that we have, which
is making sure that the lesson developers don't get paralyzed by not knowing
what is wanted/needed, and making sure that the people doing outreach don't get
bogged down in lesson development.

One concern is how to separate the scopes -- our meetings nominally have a
related separation (co-working vs coordination), but as a practical matter,
concerns have not always been separated, sometimes due to e.g. SC deadline
pressure, etc.

Andrew and Trevor will write the actual charters based on this separation soon.

Software Carpentry has recently completed descriptions of their committees, and
have a division of responsibility. Maybe follow up with Toby to get that value.

### Near-Term Workshop

The cluster at cluster.hpc-carpentry.org is up and available, and is
free-as-in-beer to use. The Jetstream cluster is bigger and more capable, and
might be better suited to a 50-learner workshop, but consumes credits when you
run it. But it's also "elastic" in the cloud sense, in that it can be scaled up
and down. So we could stand it up, scale it to accommodate the workshop, and
then scale it down (but not tear it down entirely) to preserve the
functionality and data for follow-up.

Q's for Annajiat: Is it going to be 50 learners? Timing? What date or dates? Do
"we" have strong preferences for who should be instructors and helpers? Which
lessons will be taught? Is it just the HPCC content or are there others? Can
Annajiat use the workshop request mechanism, just to exercise that workflow?

How should we size the cluster? Can we check our spending? Andrew thinks he saw
a page that did that.

### Updates to the Workflow Lesson

Progress:
[Issue #1](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/1) is
where the discussion is happening.
[Some `Snakefile`s are in place](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/tree/main/episodes/files):
running a job at all, adding a rule and noting their order of execution, and a
demo of rules running (or not) when dependencies are (not) present.

### Other Business

There's a
[Better Scientific Software Fellowship](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/tree/main/episodes/files),
it's a funding opportunity for promoting better scientific software through a
public artifact. It's for investigators affiliated with a US institution.

Toby suggests that a grant like this ($25k) could support a community manager
part-time. Interesting! Some things they might handle:

- We need to teach more workshops and gather feedback.
- We need to write down a roadmap (strategic plan) to help guide lesson
  development "investment."
- Organizing a lot of workshops, and harnessing momentum to build a pool of
  instructors & helpers, takes a lot of time.
- The person would already need to be familiar with The Carpentries to be
  effective in a short timeframe.

---

## 1700 EDT Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- ***
