# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 18 May 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EDT][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

Note that Daylight Saving Time has started in the US, but that due to our
recent changes to the calendar scheme, the later meeting is still at 17:00
Eastern time, though it will have shifted by an hour for non-US locations. The
[Google Calendar][gcal] remains authoritative.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/4W0cnVmxSuS-Q8Cg-OreUQ
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/09HL_KxbTFGDEf7fMzliTQ
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

### Annual Elections

We are nearing another full circuit around the Sun with the current Steering
Committee, and the time
([mid-May](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/114)) has come
to plan our annual election!

### Instructor Notes Drive

The Carpentries effort to collect
[instructor notes](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/05/instructor-notes-drive-schedule/)
is on-going, with one event taking place after this meeting. This looks like a
good way to engage with broader Carpentries content and help improve the
lessons.

### Updates to the Workflow Lesson

The strategic plan includes a workshop that includes the [workflow
lesson][workflow-lesson], and development of this is a logical priority at this
point.

There are multiple subsidiary questions that arise.

#### Lesson Episodes and Objectives

There is an
[issue](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/1) which
proposes a possible outline and objectives for the new lesson. Possibly the
right approach at this point is to start writing to this outline and see if it
continues to make sense when it's fleshed out. Other options or amendments are
welcome!

#### Carpentries Workbench Basic Operations

A number of us (Andrew and Trevor, maybe more?) have gotten the R workflow set
up and have checkouts of the workbench skeleton that build. A "content-scheme"
[branch](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/tree/content-scheme)
of the [repo][workflow-lesson] has a candidate structure for adding new
episodes.

#### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

Building the new lesson on the Carpentries Workbench gives us an opportunity to
re-think how we incorporate custom content specific to particular HPC clusters
into our lesson structures. The current [intro][intro-lesson] lesson does this
with "snippets", but we have a long-standing task of reviewing this.

There is a related
[proposal](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/122), the focus
of which is on the snippet library currently in use in our [HPC
Intro][intro-lesson] lesson, but which could be adapted to the new lesson.

Many resources have been ID'd on the
[slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T) also.

#### Use of Cluster Resources

We seem to have a durable consensus that the lesson should use the cluster
resources as soon as is practical, and in particular should not instruct users
to run the stunt executable (the Amdahl code) on the cluster head node or on
their laptops. This may require some restructuring of existing and new lessons.
Resources cited above are relevant here also.

---

## 1300 CET Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Annajiat Alim Rasel, Bangladesh

### Elections

There is some traffic in a channel on the slack about whether
steering-committee elections should wait for a response from the Carpentries
with respect to our application for incubation/inclusion. The reason to wait is
that Carpentries sub-entities are supposed to have a slightly different
structure than has been customary for us, in particular, the "governance
committee" canonically has a chair, whereas we have typically just had more of
a "round table" approach. The reason _not_ to wait is that we are due, and
there's nothing actually stopping us from changing the structure mid-cycle.
Also more timely action might help with engagement e.g. from the NeSI folks,
who recently expressed an interest (to Annajiat, based on the Slack convo) in
joining.

Also, it's likely that the canonical structure isn't actually a Carpentries
requirement, we could insist on our existing structure.

Template charter:
https://github.com/swcarpentry/governance/blob/add-charter/committee_charter.md

### Instructor Notes Drive

Described in the agenda item.

### Quantified Logistics (new business)

#### A channel for expressions of general interest in workshops

Should we have some way for people to express interest in HPC Carpentry
workshops? The existing workshop request infrasturcture on the main site does
not exactly do this, it's more for people who already have a near-term
requirement rather than general interest. A scheme like this would help up plan
for workshop sessions, and as a secondary benefit, would demonstrate outside
interest in our content and capabilities.

The Carpentries already can do this, and in particular has the web and database
infrastructure for it?

#### Document effort expended

Along similar lines of documenting interest, we can/should add whatever metrics
we have, including workshops given, as well as metrics related to "behind the
scenes" effort, e.g. number of members of the slack channel, subscribers to the
topicbox channel, number of hours of coordination and co-working meetings.

### Workbench Lesson: HPC Workflows

While not entirely from scratch, we propose to create a new version of HPC
Workbench based on the content of the
[previous lesson](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/old-hpc-workflows). We can
go ahead working on the
[draft outline](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/1).

Locally ~~hacking on~~ editing the lesson involves R and the new _{sandpaper}_
workflow, documented [here](https://carpentries.github.io/sandpaper-docs/).
Note that Andrew and Trevor had an issue where R couldn't automagically open
the browser: we both set `options(browser=false)`, then copied and opened
thelinks ourselves, _Ã  la_ Jupyter Notebook workflow.

Once you have installed Git, R, and Pandoc, open an R session in the working
directory of the lesson you want to build. Then do:

```R
library(sandpaper)
sandpaper::serve()
```

You can then open the link provided to preview your changes to the lesson
content as you make them.

### Action Items

There is profound interest in an open, virtual, online workshop. This requires:

1. Alan: build/revise/deploy MagicCastle on a Cloud resource
2. Alan/Trevor: build a snippet library for 't
3. "Request" and advertise a workshop!
4. Trevor: Kick off the annual Steering Committee election
5. Andrew/Trevor: Draft charters for steering and curriculum development
   committees.
6. Trevor/Benson: Examine alternative voting platforms with better guarantees
   of anonymity and non-duplication.

---

## 1700 EDT Session

### Attendees:

---
