# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 19 January 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EST][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9cmxNNdZSZOHkPTqu3PNLQ
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/tYkxYz1ORiKsXi1NfH2yfA
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

### The Road To The Carpentries

The plan for this meeting is to continue to follow up on our efforts to draft a
formal request to enter the incubation phase, as described in the curriculum
development [handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/).

This is of course a work in progress at our
[working repository](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request) on
Gitlab.

There are notes from
[the initial meeting](https://codimd.carpentries.org/h4bbHqmuQcCJ3jDeyUSx6A)
with the Carpentries, which of course informs this process.

This meeting's primary agenda item is to complete the report that answers the
questions spelled out in the handbook.

Possibly a reasonable goal for today would be to make a list of action items.

The questions our narrative should answer are repeated here as a framing
device, not as a to-do list.

> 1. Description of the community that is working on the Lesson Project
> 2. Description of domain knowledge required for instructors to teach the
>    material, so that we can determine to what extent our existing instructor
>    pool may possess these skills and be able to teach these workshops
> 3. Description of the community that the Lesson Project serves with their
>    workshops
> 4. Goals of the Lesson Project
> 5. List of the lessons developed or under development and what a two-day
>    workshop would include, along with access to the materials for Carpentries
>    review
> 6. Information about when and where at least some of the materials have been
>    taught, even if as smaller modules and not yet a full-fledged 2-day
>    workshop
> 7. Assessment information from the teaching events regarding number of
>    attendees and learner feedback about the workshop(s), either using The
>    Carpentries standard surveys or custom survey questions
> 8. How the Lesson Project feels that becoming an official Carpentries Lesson
>    Program will benefit the Lesson Project, The Carpentries, and the broader
>    learning community.

### The Amdahl Branch

The
[Amdahl's law executable PR](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/pull/411)
to the [HPC Intro lesson](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro)
is still not merged. This slot is for a discussion of the remaining obstacles
-- there is some pending unresolved discussion about the right (or at least
not-wrong) way to download and install the Amdahl tool.

### Other Business

There are numerous other items that would fit as and when time permits.
Principally the status of the Snakemake lesson, which is an important piece of
actually building a coherent workshop, rather than a less-coherent collection
of material.

---

## 1300 CET Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor Keller (he/them), NIST
- Benson Muite, Kichakato Kizito
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), CECAM
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries

### The Road to the Carpentries

Discussion of the state of the
[repo](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request) with regard to
completing the document.

Benson is in touch with some folks, in particular
[George Ostrouchov](https://haslam.utk.edu/people/profile/george-ostrouchov/)
about a parallel R unit ([pdbR](http://r-pbd.org/), which might help diversify
future developer-focused content. Consensus was that this is valuable but the
developer workshop from the strategic plan is less developed than the user
track. This is a good effort, but we don't need to wait for this to be
completed in order to complete the "Road to the Carpentries" document, it's
sufficient to describe this effort for the document.

For issue [#2](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request/-/issues/2),
determining the size of the community, there were relatively few responses from
the first round of outreach, possibly complicated by the holiday, so this
effort continues.

Action item: Andrew will have a look at all the issues, and chart a path
forward, possibly involving assigning issues to folks (after consultation of
course.)

### The Amdahl Branch

Trevor currently "owns" the delay. There was some confusion about the
best-practice for installing the Admahl material, but we are now convinced that
pip-installing is the right way to go for this tool. There's a sort of
coordination problem, part of the lesson involves file transfers, and it would
be nice if the thing downloaded in that part of the lesson were useful in the
rest of the lesson, i.e. if it were the Amdahl tarball itself.

Task: Create a new release in the Amdahl repo, which we think will
auto-generate the download file, which can then be downloaded and locally
pip-installed, if that's the workflow we want. Trevor will take this on, and
the general belief is that this is not a heavy lift.

### Other Business

#### HPC Workflow (Snakemake)

The [HPC Workflows](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows)
repo could use renewed attention. Trevor and Andrew were working on a
mostly-functional snakefile that looks like a good anchor for the lesson. Also
Andrew was in the middle of a goal-setting activity on the repo, which is
[Issue #15](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/15).

Consensus was that, while there are alternatives to Snakemake, and they might
be better, what "we" should actually _do_ is complete the lesson with Snakemake
as the workflow tool, and then possibly revisit this with the hopes that
swapping in a new tool will not be too burdensome.

#### Rebuilding momentum on the Road to the Carpentries

How to get people contributing to the document? There is probably a lot of
progress we can make in advance of hearing back on our outreach efforts.

#### Funding

The partial support for HPC Carpentries that Alan is hooked up with (BioNT) has
nominally started, but there's an immediate 3-month extension. It would be
valuable for Alan to have a full two-day workshop in place by the summer.

This is also an example where HPC Carpentry has been part of a successful
request for funding, so indicates demand for this material.

#### Missing Info on the Road to the Carpentries

Toby points out that there's no issue on the repo about when/where the material
has been taught. Opened an issue. This can be part of outreach, but of course
this group has also done a bunch of this.

We have our own [list](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/past-workshops/).

#### Sustainability

An advantage of the Carpentries approach and community is that can persist
outside of external funding streams. Our "continuous improvement" model helps
capture and retain improvements to the material, and the breadth of the
community helps keep things alive.

---

## 1700 EST Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor Keller (he/they), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
