# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 19 October 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CEST][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EDT][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

Note that Daylight Saving Time has started in the US, but that due to our
recent changes to the calendar scheme, the later meeting is still at 17:00
Eastern time, though it will have shifted by an hour for non-US locations. The
[Google Calendar][gcal] remains authoritative.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/QFyvTWf5RsS2VEiPDyu2YA
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/dYxwz_drRYijdDp9hr94bA
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

The agenda items are mostly a return to previous issues.

### Near-term Workshop

We talked last time about doing a workshop for Annajiat's students. If there's
anything the HPCC committee can do, this is a good time to get it in the mix.
There has been some traffic on the slack about this.

### Lesson Program Commmittee Charter Documents

Andrew and Trevor have a to-do item about drafting committee charters,
anticipating a more formal organization as we align with the Carpentries. We
don't have to follow the Lesson Development Handbook, but we should ensure that
the responsibilities described have some organizational support.

### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

Work on setting up snippets for the new cloud environment, and making that the
default, is underway, including reducing the number and scope of the snippets.
Comments and discussion on this effort are welcome.

There is a
[proposal](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/122), the focus
of which is on the snippet library currently in use in our [HPC
Intro][intro-lesson] lesson, but which could be adapted to the new lesson.

Many resources have been ID'd on the
[slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T) also.

### Updates to the Workflow Lesson

The strategic plan includes a workshop that includes the [workflow
lesson][workflow-lesson], and development of this is a logical priority at this
point.

There has been some recent progress.

---

## 1300 CEST Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Toby (he/him)

### Charter Documents

An insight about committees, and bureaucracy in general, is that the purpose of
it is to solve coordination problems, either serving as aggregation points for
information, or matching up resources to capabilities. This is true of our
committees also, and is maybe a useful framing.

What are our coordination problems?

- Opportunities may exist to develop new lessons that fit coherently into the
  existing set, and/or advance the goals of the organization.
- Workshops are made up of several lessons, and should progress within a
  workshop from basic to advanced, and provide learners with a coherent set of
  capabilities at the end.
- Existing lessons should incorporate feedback from learners after they have
  been taught and all the green/red stickies are aggregated.
- Opportunities may arise to solicit funding. Requests should speak for the
  organization, and the money should go somewhere.
- In the glorious future, when the community is larger and there are more
  lesson developers and contributors. Focusing this effort ("herding cats")
  will have to happen.
- Speaking for the organization to get new contributors and learners, to build
  the community.

What's working and what isn't, is also perhaps another useful framing.

What's working: We're pretty good at coordinating presentations, e.g. the SC21,
CarpentryCon 2022, and SC23 activities.

What's not working:

- HPC Workflows sprint at CarpentryCon was more than a year ago, but progress
  since then has been incremental.
  - With curation of the issues and preparation, this could probably be
    hammered out in a few hours.
- Who could step up if Andrew stepped away from HPC Carpentry, or Alan, or
  Trevor? What "role" would a new person step into, and what process would the
  hand-off involve?
- We aren't planning for _scaling up_. Current governance model works for the
  size of these meetings and number of contributors;
-
- as we convene working groups on different lessons and workshops, the heavier
  lift (numerous competing directions) will require a thought-through
  governance model.

### Virtual Workshop

Annajiat has not yet reached the point where a cluster is useful, but will get
there soon, and is looking to get some help from our group with that. Help
includes approving accounts on the cluster, of course, but also instructors and
helpers, and general support.

His group can accommodate evening hours Eastern time (Americas), and he'll put
out the call to see about which particular evening will work for his learners.
It would be the HPC Intro lesson. Additional HPC-relevant material would be
welcome.

### Carpentries Workbench and Customized Content

This is mostly Alan's issue at this point, so we can skip this for now. The
question is about how to incorporate site-specific info into Workbench lessons,
and Alan was in conversation with the Workbench devs on this, and may have
updates.

### Workflow Lesson

We've got 9 minutes, can we engage?

Andrew logged in to his cluster account and found the state of the effort is
slightly more advanced than he thought -- the existing structure does run on
the cluster, but explicitly with the `--cluster` argument to the `snakemake`
command. This is an important step, the next one is to bundle all the cluster
stuff into a cluster profile and use that.

So the engangement result is that it's farther along than we thought, which is
of course awesome.

## 1700 EDT Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller
- Wirawan Purwanto, ODU

### Workflow

Banging on the lesson in a vaguely productive way.

### FYI: Recent workflow workshop from PSC

**"Interoperable Workflows Using Workflow Management Systems and Singularity
Containers"**
https://www.psc.edu/events/workshop-interoperable-workflows-using-cwl/
Instructor: IvÃ¡n E. Cao-Berg (PSC Research Software Specialist in the
Biomedical Applications Group)

**Lessons:**

Part 1: Elevating Scientific Computing with Singularity Containers

- Overview of Singularity Containers
- Singularity Container Sharing on Sylabs.io
- Container Creation and Building

- ==> [Slides](https://hackmd.io/@icaoberg/ByophGHl6)

- ==> [Hands-on materials](https://hackmd.io/RHwOAw5eR5-VbaD6MsShaQ?view)

Part 2: Streamlining Reproducible Data Analysis using Workflow Management
Systems and Singularity Containers

- Introduction to Workflow Management Systems (WMS)
- Dive into Nextflow
- Dive into Snakemake

---
