---
layout: page
tags: ["HPC Carpentry", "preserved", "editable"]
---

# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 16 February 2023

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EST][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/56xCvJMiRoqI0XsDZk2GCA
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/YMERd4HBTAGcLHQQKYCtOw
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

### The Road To The Carpentries

The plan for this meeting is to continue to follow up on our efforts to draft a
formal request to enter the incubation phase, as described in the curriculum
development [handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/).

This is of course a work in progress at our
[working repository](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request) on
Gitlab.

There are notes from
[the initial meeting](https://codimd.carpentries.org/h4bbHqmuQcCJ3jDeyUSx6A)
with the Carpentries, which of course informs this process.

By way of scheduling, we learned at the last co-working meeting that the
Carpentries executive council has a retreat they do in April, whose agenda is
solidified in mid-March, so completion and submission by then would be
valuable. Also a deadline might motivate completion, although of course we will
also be respectfuol of people's bandwidth limits.

This meeting's primary agenda item is to complete the report that answers the
questions spelled out in the handbook.

### The Amdahl Branch

The
[Amdahl's law executable PR](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/pull/411)
to the [HPC Intro lesson](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro)
is still not merged. This slot is for a discussion of the remaining obstacles
-- there is some pending unresolved discussion about the right (or at least
not-wrong) way to download and install the Amdahl tool.

### Other Business

There are numerous other items that would fit as and when time permits.
principally the status of the Snakemake lesson, which is an important piece of
actually building a coherent workshop, rather than a less-coherent collection
of material.

---

## 1300 CET Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), CECAM
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries
- Benson Muite, Kichakato Kizito
- Annajiat Rasel, BRAC University

### Notes

#### Extracurricular Activities

Andrew has engaged with some of the social media at
[hpc.social](https://hpc.social), this is the resource that was mentioned by
Alan Sill at the second session of the [last co-working meeting][last-cowork]
by Alan Sill.

- Is it a good resource for newcomers to HPC? The Discord seems quite
  technical, so it might turn newbies away.
- Maybe "we" should create a "#training" channel on their slack and/or discord?

#### The Road to the Carpentries

Alan says he is ready to re-engage with the description of the history.

The Carpentries executive council retreat is in April, so if we had a completed
document by mid-March, that would be good.

Feedback from Benson's outreach effort, there have been a few responses, some
of them encouraging with respect to potential contributors and curriculum
committee members. A next step for this effort is to maybe more clearly set
expectations for what kind of commitment is involved in lesson maintenance.
Varies by lesson, of course -- mature lessons don't involve meetings or big
time-sinks, but less mature lessons might require more coordination effort.

Provisional plan: Work on this over the next couple of weeks, and review full
draft at the next co-working on March 2.

###### Sidebar about translations

One of the outreach responders had translated a lesson into Mandarin, which
motivated a broader question about translation. The new Carpentries lesson
framework is not especially translation-friendly, the Carpentries is seeking
additional resources to make this happen more quickly.

#### Amdahl Branch

The branch is nearing convergence, Alan says he'll review it in the next hour
(from the 1300 CET session), checking over the recent Github traffic. Others
can do this also!

#### Other Business

We should reply to the workshop request from 10 days ago.

Agenda item for the next co-working meeting: Review this form, make sure we are
happy with the questions asked. It looks like it's not up to date with our
lesson portfolio. Also, notably, the form does not request a workshop date or
date range.

Next step: Reach out to the requestor and start the conversation. If there's
enough lead time, reach out to the mailing list and see if we can get an
in-person instructor to their site.

##### Sidebar about cloud resources

Not particular to the current request, but we could perhaps ask for some cloud
resources, and start building the pipeline? Timelines for access can be long.
Alternatively, we could recover on-demand cloud resource costs from workshop
requestors. Possibly in the glorious future when we are an official Carpentries
entity, this might be at a lower rate than the commercial rate.

- [name=Alan] has access to three clouds, for at least 12 months
- [CloudBank](https://www.cloudbank.org/training/cloudbank-community) may be a
  venue to look into as well

Action items:

- [name=Alan] will say yes to the offer he has in hand, and we can start
  exercising the workflow for that.
- The request is for instructors and a full hybrid workshop, neither of which
  we have.
- [name=Toby] suggests using this as an opportunity to request a general
  Carpentries instructor local to the workshop to go and run the lesson, with
  remote support from us, and see how it goes

Secondary issue: If the instructional resource is transient, workshop
requestors may want or need to migrate the set-up to their own ownership. Our
cloud infrastructure set-up should reduce friction for this step. Possibly this
is relatively easy, we can provide the workshop folks with our Magic Castle
workflow, which they can overlay on resources they purchase?

#### Other new business

Adjacent to these issues, it's perhaps appropriate to ping the Carpentries
about access to resources.

Also, there is maybe AI-driven HPC tuning, like AutoML but for clusters.
Probably this is not near-term, it's e.g. farther away than web-based tools for
talking to clusters, but something to keep in mind for the road map.

- Example(?): https://www.run.ai/guides/hpc-clusters
-

It may be possible to road-test the HPC-Intro lesson with the merged Amdahl
branch on a group of students that Annajiat has access to. Valuable to
road-test both the cloud infrastructure and the merged lesson.

---

## 1700 EST Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
-

#### New Business

Alan Sill dropped by, says that the [IMasons](https://imasons.org)
(Infrastructure Masons) group, mostly focused on data centers, is interested in
tutorial resources. Possibly we can help them out? And/or get cloud credits
from them?

Also possibly reach out to the
[Campus Research Computing Consortium](https://carcc.org).

Also Victor Eijkhout, author/maintainer of the
[Art of HPC](https://theartofhpc.com/). He has a ton of resources, collected at
that site. Used to run "Scientific Software Days" conference. This content is
mostly traditional textbook and lecture slide materials, but Victor is
interested in possibly getting his material into less traditional channels.

Other resources that we talked about a bit: The Spack folks have some
cloud-like resources.

The ACCESS folks also have training, of course.

Victor: TACC workshops are evolving, they have found that trying to pivot to
bioinformatics was complicated because there's no single toolset that all
biologists use, so it was hard to identify a foundation to teach. They are
trying to pivot to maybe longer time-lines for training with narrower
audiences, and using e.g. Youtube or other less-traditional instructional
media.

Links to various instructional resources discussed here:

- Infracture group at [IMasons](https://imasons.org/)
- Campus Research Computing Consortium ([CaRCC](https://carcc.org/)\_
- Coalition for Academic Scientific Computation ([CASC](https://casc.org/))
- NFS Cloud and Autonomic Computing ([NFSCAC](https://nsfcac.org/))
- Texas Tech [HPC Center](https://www.depts.ttu.edu/hpcc/)

More security-focused resources:

- [Educause](https://library.educause.edu/resources/2022/6/effective-cybersecurity-for-research)
- NIST Special Publication 223 on
  [HPC security](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-223.ipd.pdf)
