# HPCC Meeting, March 6, 2025

The HPC Carpentry Steering Committee hosts meetings on the first and third Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

* [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; on [Zoom Room 2][zoom_early], better for Africa, Asia, and Europe  
  Meeting ID: 824 315 0376, Passcode: 202020
* [17:00 EST][evening] &mdash; on [Zoom Room 2][zoom_early], better for the Americas and Oceania  
  Meeting ID: 271 847 9229, Passcode: 202020

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available [online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->
[zoom_early]: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom2?pwd=WmVCOUlPUm1laFk5SUp1UWg5cjhEUT09
[zoom_late]: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom3?pwd=ZGY2VVRIRDhGSU84Uys1dEx1YXphZz09
[earlier]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250206T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Meeting+1
[evening]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250206T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Meeting+2
[last-meeting]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/1v5fFHf2QCyWbCaTItICZw

---

Here is a [Checklist of HPC Carpentry's Lesson Program Incubation Tasks][hpc-lpi-list].

---

## Agenda

1. Workbench development (hpc-intro) needs a point person.
2. Conferences and Outreach
3. Workshops: NERSC/LLNL? Anybody have one upcoming? [Put it on the website!](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/upcoming-workshops/)

### HPC Intro Lesson Development

By the time of this meeting, the March 5 development activity will be complete, and we'll have a clear idea where we stand.

As of the time of this writing, it looks like Jean Chang's fork of Toby's flattened [HPC Intro](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) is in pretty good shape, it builds, and can fill in variables from the R runtime environment that have been populated by a config file, following the EPCC model.  

It remains relevant that [announced changes](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/01/sunsetting-styles-support-incubator/) to what the Carpentries Infrastructure will support -- `__styles__` support ends Dec. 31, 2025.  That's a ways off, but worth noting.

#### History

Jean's fork of Toby's flattened [HPC Intro](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) can be found at https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake.  

There are three instances of the Scheduler episode. In the [original](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-scheduler.md)), the flattened snippet looks like ``{{ site.remote.prompt }}``. The [EPCC instance](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-epcc-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-epcc-scheduler.Rmd)) took the EPCC version of that episode from the EPCC repo and showed their snippet strategy worked (same snippet now has format \`r config\$remote\$prompt\`) with a slightly tweaked instance of EPCC's [yaml config](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/epcc_config.yaml). Finally, an [HPCC version](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-hpcc-scheduler.Rmd)) using the EPCC Scheduler episode content and HPCC snippets that has the values for HPCC snippets into [lesson_config.yaml](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/lesson_config.yaml). 

ToDos and decision points
1. Determine if this snippet strategy should accommodate scheduler-specific snippets in addition to site-specific snippets (educated guess: can provide scheduler-specific yaml files to guide lesson customization)
2. Decide if the repo should contain 
    a. many locale-specific snippet files (ie. retain existing pre-flattened repo structure) OR
    b. just one (or a core set if providing scheduler-specific examples) to guide local customization (ie. customized file stays in local repo).
3. What, if any, content merging between current HPC Intro and EPCC repo
    a.  use EPCC as "base" file (ie. take advantage of EPCC content with already-formatted snippets and back-port/revert differing content) OR 
    b. work through each HPC Intro episode and convert to R markdown (requires adjusting some non-snippet hyperlinks) and adjust old snippets to new format (defer decisons on integrating EPCC content)

By way of reminder, the goal is to migrate the [HPC Intro][hpc-intro] lesson to the Carpentries Workbench. There's a [shared document](https://codimd.carpentries.org/e-TnbrTaRSSAFXhGILr6NQ) with notes about how this is done in the EPCC world. As of Sept. 27, what had happened was, a [flattened version](https://github.com/tkphd/hpc-intro-online) had been created, then [migrated to the workbench](https://github.com/tobyhodges/probable-pancake) using the automatic migration tool (thanks Toby!).

### Conferences and Outreach

Broadly speaking, we should probably have a conversation about the goals of the outreach efforts. These certainly include raising awareness of our efforts in the broader community, but also, what is our "ask" of the community? Do we want new instructors? People to ask us to do workshops? Sites or people to do workshops without us?

#### Actual Conferences

The deRSE activity has now happened, we anticipate reports on this -- there has already been some slack traffic.

There's also an opportunity to put in an abstract for [PASC 2025](https://pasc25.pasc-conference.org/about/conference/), but the deadline is March 7, so coming right up!

Also from the Slack, the GW team (Clark Gaylord and Joseph Creech) have submitted a tutorial proposal for [PEARC25](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc25/).

We are also planning to put in for a BoF at this conference, the deadline is March 22, 2025.


#### Actual Workshops

The NIST team got positive feedback from their abbreviated workshop, and now plan to repeat it in mid to late March at NIST's sister site in Colorado.

Also Andrew keeps promising to reach out to the NSERC and LLNL folks, perhaps that will have happened by the time of this meeting.

### Other Issues In Flight

#### NSF CyberTraining Program Grant Application

Toby and Erin Becker (Carpentries) worked with Trevor (HPCC) on a proposal in response to the NSF [call for funding](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/training-based-workforce-development-advanced) for advanced cyberinfrastructure training, which sounds a whole lot like what we do.

This proposal made it in under the deadline, we expect it will take several months before we hear anything.


#### The Website

(Unchanged from Jan. 2025)

Consensus about the website from the [July 4 meeting](https://codimd.carpentries.org/VMqdWq7ISNiZVMQWE9OSWA) (!!) was that the website needs attention, but that we'll want to align with the revised Carpentries styling once that settles down,

Possibly a draft design or a review of the desired content might still be appropriate -- this is our "front door", and will be a natural focus of attention as we do more outreach.

Items from AT:

- Some open issues that should be addressed -> [clarify core curriculum](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/79), [clarify lesson maintainers](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/78)
- I agree with [#79](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/79) that the lessons page is very difficult to parse. Clarifying the core HPC Carpentry curriculum (and the status of its lessons) would help. I'd recommend mirroring the structure of SWC (https://software-carpentry.org/lessons/)
- Are there designated website owners/maintainers responsible for updating/approving MRs? Could make this clear on the website e.g. on https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/maintainers/ -> list lesson maintainers & website maintainers
- It's not clear who is in charge of the group (the [governance site](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/governance/) just links to a GH issue) -> a list of steering committee members and any affiliated orgs would be useful here.
- There are a number of issues which look stale, these should be triaged and either closed/assigned
- There is a stale MR ([steering committee charter](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/pull/73)) which might need attention


### Carpentries Incubation

As a reminder, the [full set of nominal requirements are in the Carpentries Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/resources/curriculum/lesson-programs.html#phase-2-incubation)  (WP: link updated for the new Carpentries Handbook website)

Also, these requirements are re-cast in the form of [several issues](https://github.com/orgs/hpc-carpentry/projects/1/views/2) on the coordination repo.

These need to be broken down into actionable pieces, and some sense of progress arrived at. We are doing a fair amount of outreach, and doing some workshops, and some development, but maybe losing our grip on the big picture. 

As a first cut, for this session, we should generate a list of the areas which are getting the least attention, or maybe the least effective attention. The goal for today is not necessarily to break them down entirely into actionable pieces (thought that would be awesome), but to remind ourselves of what there is to do.

## 13:00 CET Session([VTC][zoom_early])

### Participants

- Andrew Reid, NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Alan O'Cais, UB/CECAM
- Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University, UK

Brief sidebar about setting up EESSI for Jannetta Steyn's MiniHPC set-up -- there's some fussiness with the start-up process that's still an issue with the nodes that were not worked on during yesterday's call.


### HPC Intro Lesson Development

We had a good co-working session on March 5. Development is on [Alan's fork](https://github.com/ocaisa/probable-pancake) for now. The current state of play is that we have a strategy for moving forward, involving having a base configuration that's complete, and having additional configurations that can overwrite elements of the base configuration, that does not have to be complete. We also have a modified snippet scheme for custom content, e.g. the `sinfo` output.

One issue that has arisen is how to handle conditional rendering -- we have this in the lesson for e.g. if you have a portal that handles SSH keys for you, you don't need to render the part of the lesson about uploading keys. The old Jekyl version and config-dependent in-lesson logic to do this, but it's not obvious if R-markdown can do logic in this way. It could be done with additional snippets, also, with the side-effect of adding more snippets, which is not cost-free either.

Question about the CI -- Alan had to add an REnv block before it would build on github, which seems odd, since the package dependencies are all met without it, but apparently it's an induced requirement from R-markdown, you need to have the renv directory and the lock file.

### Conferences and Outreach

#### Conferences

The ISC BoF proposal was rejected. Alan said he looked at the feedback, the general tenor was lack of clarity about the goals of the BoF.

The deRSE activity happened. There were 14 people in the room, mostly new people. With some context about what the project is about and what was wanted, they team was able to collect some interesting data. There has not been a good opportunity to sit down and try to synthesize it, but the general impression is that there are folks in Germany who see a need for this training, and that it's not really being provided at their organization. So a niche we can fill. Institutional buy-in is a barrier, every cluster operator thinks their cluster is different and special and so is skeptical of generic training. There will be additional follow-up.

For PASC (Switzerland), there's a draft abstract up on the Slack conversation, this was actually solicited, the barrier is finding someone who is going and willing to talk -- once that person is ID'd, we can move on this. 
Action: Toby will reach out to Clark Gaylord and Joseph Creech at GW, we think they are going.

PEARC BoF: Still planning to do this. Andrew will try to put something together before March 14.
Columbus, OH is close to home for Trevor: I plan to attend.

#### Outreach 

The Carpentries, in the person of Oscar Masinyana, would like to talk to the steering committee about a communications plan for the incubation phase, to help hook us up with existing Carpentries resources, and also help us focus on communications in particular.

After the late session today, we'll nominate someone at our end to have this conversation.

For the ACCESS allocation, it's not clear if the extension has been requested yet. Alan thought perhaps that Wirawan was on point for this, Andrew thought that the GW team was doing this, but we don't actually know if anyone has pulled the trigger on this. If this all were to fall through and we wanted to do this commercially, it wouldn't be a heavy lift to do a one-off on e.g. Amazon or Azure. Trevor and Alan ran the numbers on this, and we think it's around $100. If we're up against a deadline and NSF or other free resources aren't available, this is always an option.

Related to spinning up clusters, Alan owns the hpc-carpentry.org domain. We've never solved the problem of institutional ownership of the various infrastructural pieces, including the domain. Becoming a lesson program fixes that, but we're not there yet. In the glorious future, we can talk to Rob Davey, the Carpentries director of technology about that.

For now, if Clark or anyone else wants to spin up a cluster for a workshop, they should contact Alan. Private repo connected to Terraform Cloud, connected to the resource. Currently configured for ACCESS resource, so will fail now. Needs to be replaced. Alan has credentials for Terraform and another for domain with CloudFlare. 

Lipi G. reached out from NERSC... they have hundreds of neophytes to train, and want our help and materials.

Andrew and Trevor will be running a workshop for NIST Boulder in April, <https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/upcoming-workshops/>.

Additional deRSE feedback: Questions were asked about whether friction-reduction things like remote mounting of HPC system hosted files, or editing files remotely via VSCode or others. Some folks have some frustration about not having been taught this. Action: Toby will open an issue on the coordination repo.

### Other Issues 

---


## 17:00 EST Session ([VTC][zoom_early]) -- note room! Same as the early session, different from the usual.

### Participants

- Andrew Reid, NIST


### HPC Intro Lesson Development

### Conferences and Outreach

### Other issues

---

<!-- Administrata -->

[gcal]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[hpc-cluster]: https://cluster.hpc-carpentry.org

<!--HPC Carpentry Repositories-->
[coordination]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination
[proposals]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/labels/proposal
[hpc-chapel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel
[hpc-intro]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[hpc-parallel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice
[hpc-python]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python
[hpc-shell]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell
[hpc-workflows]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[hpc-lpi-list]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/NXxvX-z4RZ6BAuX-aSAhiQ

<!--HPC Carpentry Issues-->
[coordination-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues
[hpc-chapel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel/issues
[hpc-intro-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues
[hpc-parallel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice/issues
[hpc-python-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python/issues
[hpc-shell-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell/issues
[hpc-workflows-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues

<!--Other-->
[genomics-workshop]: https://datacarpentry.org/genomics-workshop/
[nextflow-lesson]: https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/workflows-nextflow/

<!--Carpentries References-->
[conduct]: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html
[invite]: https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/
[ldh]: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#lesson-programs
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com

:::info
__Use of this service is restricted to members of The Carpentries community__.

Users are expected to follow our __[Code of Conduct][conduct]__.

All content is publicly available under the [Creative Commons Attribution License][license].
:::

:::danger
__This server is not backed up!__

The Carpentries is not responsible for any data loss.
:::
