# HPCC Meeting, January 16, 2025

The HPC Carpentry Steering Committee hosts meetings on the first and third Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

* [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; on [Zoom Room 2][zoom_early], better for Africa, Asia, and Europe  
  Meeting ID: 824 315 0376, Passcode: 202020
* [17:00 EST][evening] &mdash; on [Zoom Room 3][zoom_late], better for the Americas and Oceania  
  Meeting ID: 271 847 9229, Passcode: 202020

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available [online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->
[zoom_early]: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom2?pwd=WmVCOUlPUm1laFk5SUp1UWg5cjhEUT09
[zoom_late]: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/carpentriesroom3?pwd=ZGY2VVRIRDhGSU84Uys1dEx1YXphZz09
[earlier]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250116T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Meeting+1
[evening]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250116T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Meeting+2
[last-meeting]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/jT_FqxgoS1Sbjjb30PtAcw


## Agenda

### HPC Intro Lesson Development

Jean has been leading the charge on this. Jean's fork of Toby's flattened [HPC Intro](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) can be found at https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake.  

There are three instances of the Scheduler episode. In the [original](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-scheduler.md)), the flattened snippet looks like ``{{ site.remote.prompt }}``. The [EPCC instance](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-epcc-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-epcc-scheduler.Rmd)) took the EPCC version of that episode from the EPCC repo and showed their snippet strategy worked (same snippet now has format \`r config\$remote\$prompt\`) with a slightly tweaked instance of EPCC's [yaml config](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/epcc_config.yaml). Finally, an [HPCC version](https://jlchang.github.io/probable-pancake/13-hpcc-scheduler.html) ([source](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/13-hpcc-scheduler.Rmd)) using the EPCC Scheduler episode content and HPCC snippets that has the values for HPCC snippets into [lesson_config.yaml](https://github.com/jlchang/probable-pancake/blob/main/episodes/lesson_config.yaml). 

ToDos and decision points
1. Determine if this snippet strategy should accommodate scheduler-specific snippets in addition to site-specific snippets (educated guess: can provide scheduler-specific yaml files to guide lesson customization)
2. Decide if the repo should contain 
    a. many locale-specific snippet files (ie. retain existing pre-flattened repo structure) OR
    b. just one (or a core set if providing scheduler-specific examples) to guide local customization (ie. customized file stays in local repo).
3. What, if any, content merging between current HPC Intro and EPCC repo
    a.  use EPCC as "base" file (ie. take advantage of EPCC content with already-formatted snippets and back-port/revert differing content) OR 
    b. work through each HPC Intro episode and convert to R markdown (requires adjusting some non-snippet hyperlinks) and adjust old snippets to new format (defer decisons on integrating EPCC content)

By way of reminder, the goal is to migrate the [HPC Intro][hpc-intro] lesson to the Carpentries Workbench. There's a [shared document](https://codimd.carpentries.org/e-TnbrTaRSSAFXhGILr6NQ) with notes about how this is done in the EPCC world. As of Sept. 27, what had happened was, a [flattened version](https://github.com/tkphd/hpc-intro-online) had been created, then [migrated to the workbench](https://github.com/tobyhodges/probable-pancake) using the automatic migration tool (thanks Toby!).

### Conferences and Outreach

Broadly speaking, we should probably have a conversation about the goals of the outreach efforts. These certainly include raising awareness of our efforts in the broader community, but also, what is our "ask" of the community? Do we want new instructors? People to ask us to do workshops? Sites or people to do workshops without us?

#### Actual Conferences

ISC (Hamburg) BoF proposals are open. A preliminary [draft](https://codimd.carpentries.org/-QmmnOIdQd-Sg4oODTJ-LA) exists. The deadline is Jan. 22, so it's coming right up. One puzzle is who will be able to attend. 

There has been outreach about [PEARC25](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc25/) on the Slack. Tutorial/workshop deadline is Feb. 1, panel/BoF and presentation abstract deadline is March 22.


### Carpentries Incubation

As a reminder, the [full set of nominal requirements are in the Carpentries Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/resources/curriculum/lesson-programs.html#phase-2-incubation)  (WP: link updated for the new Carpentries Handbook website)

<!-- old defunc location:
https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#phase-2-incubation
-->

Also, these requirements are re-cast in the form of [several issues](https://github.com/orgs/hpc-carpentry/projects/1/views/2) on the coordination repo.

These need to be broken down into actionable pieces, and some sense of progress arrived at. We are doing a fair amount of outreach, and doing some workshops, and some development, but maybe losing our grip on the big picture. 

As a first cut, for this session, we should generate a list of the areas which are getting the least attention, or maybe the least effective attention. The goal for today is not necessarily to break them down entirely into actionable pieces (thought that would be awesome), but to remind ourselves of what there is to do.

#### NSF CyberTraining Program

Toby and Erin Becker (Carpentries) have been working with Trevor (HPCC) on a proposal in response to the NSF [call for funding](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/training-based-workforce-development-advanced) for advanced cyberinfrastructure training, which sounds a whole lot like what we do.

Wrinkle: Trevor is a US Federal govt employee, which makes the NSF folks squirm a bit (govt agents are not supposed to influence matters before another agency, which includes taking money). At NSF office hours Monday, 16 Dec., Erin asked clarifying questions. NSF staff answered, but further conversations and clarifications are needed.
Trevor (and other Federal employees) can participate as senior contributors to the project; NSF is reviewing whether another agency's employee can serve as an unfunded co-PI.

Some of you have been contacted already requesting a letter of collaboration -- please provide these by 13 January if you can :heart_decoration: 


#### The Website

Consensus about the website from the [July 4 meeting](https://codimd.carpentries.org/VMqdWq7ISNiZVMQWE9OSWA) was that the website needs attention, but that we'll want to align with the revised Carpentries styling once that settles down,

Possibly a draft design or a review of the desired content might still be appropriate -- this is our "front door", and will be a natural focus of attention as we do more outreach.

Items from AT:

- Some open issues that should be addressed -> [clarify core curriculum](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/79), [clarify lesson maintainers](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/78)
- I agree with [#79](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/issues/79) that the lessons page is very difficult to parse. Clarifying the core HPC Carpentry curriculum (and the status of its lessons) would help. I'd recommend mirroring the structure of SWC (https://software-carpentry.org/lessons/)
- Are there designated website owners/maintainers responsible for updating/approving MRs? Could make this clear on the website e.g. on https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/maintainers/ -> list lesson maintainers & website maintainers
- It's not clear who is in charge of the group (the [governance site](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/governance/) just links to a GH issue) -> a list of steering committee members and any affiliated orgs would be useful here.
- There are a number of issues which look stale, these should be triaged and either closed/assigned
- There is a stale MR ([steering committee charter](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io/pull/73)) which might need attention


---

## Incubation Checklist

From the [Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#phase-2-incubation), __the Lesson Project will complete the following tasks:__

#### 1. Policies and Processes

*to ensure compliance with existing Carpentries policies and processes*
   
- [x] Agree to abide by The Carpentries Code of Conduct (CoC)
- [x] Agree to have at least one trained instructor for each workshop
- [x] Agree to The Carpentries workshop fee structure
- [x] Define at least one curriculum that fits The Carpentries two-day workshop structure
- [x] Agree for the Lesson Project to be included in Organizational Membership agreements

##### Policies Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/132>

- [ ] Formalize our commitments in the Charter and on our website.

#### 2. Governance

*to ensure consistency with existing lesson program governance, and accountability for leading the work during Incubation*
   
- [ ] Establish a culturally and linguistically diverse Lesson Program Committee (LPC) of at least three people to serve as a governance body and point of contact with The Carpentries.
- [ ] The LPC should create a document describing this group’s roles and responsibilities.
- [x] The LPC should meet at least quarterly to oversee Lesson Project activities.
- [x] The LPC must demonstrate experience having discussions and making decisions by providing The Carpentries Core Team and Board of Directors with access to meeting minutes.

##### Governance Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/133>

- [ ] [Elections! and Charter, not in that order](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/144)

#### 3. Contributions

*to ensure a community of sufficient size and health exists to support the new Lesson Program after adoption*

- [ ]  Assign at least three maintainers to maintain each of the lessons, without unreasonable overlap between the maintainer teams of each lesson (i.e. the same people maintaining multiple lessons)
- [ ] Create an onboarding document and process for existing Carpentries instructors so that they can determine whether or not they should consider teaching these lessons
- [ ] Create a plan to recruit additional instructors for the program
    - Recurring BoF sessions at deRSE, ISC, and SC? 
- [ ] Create a plan to recruit new contributors to the program’s lessons
    - Get overview of existing training material at key institutions
    - Check overlap of and gap between external material and existing lesson material
- [ ] Demonstrate community support for the lessons (for example by providing metrics on GitHub activity, attendance at collaboration sessions, feedback from instructors, or similar metrics)
    

##### Contributions Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/134>

#### 4. Teaching

*to ensure quality of curriculum, and demand for workshops*

- [ ] Run pilot workshops to gather feedback on the curriculum and confirm that it is ready for teaching by the Instructor community
- [ ] Collect and analyze post-workshop feedback
- [ ] Complete and refine core curriculum, incorporating relevant workshop feedback
- [ ] Assign one or two leads for workshop coordination and communications work
- [ ] A list of workshops run during the Incubation Phase, or in the past year (whichever is the longer period of time)
- [ ] A list of organizations which have expressed interest in hosting centrally organized workshops using the Lesson Project’s curriculum
    - Use (HPC) conferences (e.g., SC, ISC, deRSE) to disseminate information
        - Do/will we have dissemination material?
            - Flyers? Business cards with QR Codes?
            - Enter Online Courses in Europe and on-site Courses in Germany into also into [German HPC Calendar](https://hpc-calendar.gauss-allianz.de/en)?
- [ ] A list of people who are able to teach the Lesson Project’s curriculum/curricula, whether or not they are already certified Carpentries Instructors
    - Extend instructor information form (initiated by Jane)
            - Collect Name and contact info
            - Gender (to ensure we are gender-diverse)
            - Location (to ensure we are location-diverse)
            - HPC Experience (ability and availability to teach on-boarding?)
            - Necessity of on-boarding (helping non-HPC instructors to get up to speed)
            - more?
- [ ] Provide details of any special requirements for the Lesson Project’s workshops, for example resources or infrastructure that The Carpentries would need to provide for workshops to succeed.

##### Teaching Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/135>

#### 5. Supplementary Materials

- [ ] Letters of interest from organizations wanting to host workshops. These letters of interest might indicate that the organisation
- [ ] Summary of where funding support has been sought for this work, whether or not applications were successful
- [ ] Summary of how personal time has been dedicated to this project (i.e. how much has been volunteer hours and how much has been supported through employers) - if supported by employers, what is the outlook for that support continuing?
- [ ] Summary of any infrastructure needs for supporting the Lesson Project’s workshops, along with a list of community members who are able to help fulfill any special requirements described in 4.8 above, and/or a plan for onboarding other community members to support it

##### Supplementary Follow-up

*discussion:* <https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/136>

---

## 13:00 CET Session([VTC][zoom_early])

### Participants

- Andrew Reid
- Trevor Keller
- Toby Hodges
- Alan O'Cais
- Jean Chang
- Marc-Andre Hermanns
- Clark Gaylord
- Junaid Mir: HPC consultant at hpc.NRW, newly minted Instructor

### Notes

Andrew's laptop died! Oh no!

* hpcNRW is hoping to have 12 qualified instructors by Q3 2024
    * Junaid on the call and recently qualified

### Workshops

Trevor & Andrew are running a workshop. Unix Shell went slowly. Some participants asked if this could be scheduled via episodes/themes so they can better organise their own time (and avoid the boring bits).
* Of course satisfying everyone in a large group is always tricky

### Conferences and Outreach

* Andrew has started a proposal for ISC BoF session
    * Deadline: 2025.01.22
    * Meeting tomorrow for Andrew/Marc-Andre/Toby to push this forward

* Marc-Andre/Toby will also sync for deRSE24 
* PEARC deadline is also coming up. 
    * Somebody from The Carpentries is proposing a collaborative lesson development workshop.
    * A full-day workshop, training, or BoF would work.
    * Clark believes a full-day workshop would be well-received by the PEARC community.

### HPC Intro Lesson Development

Adding modules to pull in snippets; Jean's repo is a little b0rked, but is getting help from the Workbench channel. Toby is on the case. Alan mentioned [a prior issue](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/issues/630), where improper R package pinning caused trouble.

(Cause of an issue: package incompatibility from the base OS vs the package coming from CRAN.)

### NSF Proposal

* Deadline is today
* Ready to submit (pending a document or two)
* Response may be 6-8 months (no specific deadline)
* Will fund time in The Carpentries time for HPC Carpentry integration
    * NIST was a complication when it came to funding Trevor
    * 3 years of funding
    * Builds in support for cloud resources as well
* We want to say things are going well, but also want to show growth & opportunities from running pilot workshops.
    * Alan: online-only vs. Andrew & Trevor: in-person.
        * Workflows is a progresssion of coding, keeps learners engaged & testing themselves.
        * HPC Intro has less interactivity, fewer opportunities for learners to test themselves.
        * There's a lot of lecturing in Unix Shell.
    * Dropping HPC Shell and replacing the coding exercise with the `amdahl` executable has been a huge win for clarity of scope and pedagogy.
    * Broadly, the curriculum fits into 2 days and is well-targeted at the average workshop attendee.
    * We have two lessons on Workflow: Snakemake and Maestro. Down-select.
    * The Snakemake lesson was relatively easy to port over to Maestro, at least for Jane.
        * This is a compelling argument to *just teach Snakemake,* because the lessons from using Snakemake will translate easily into alternative tools.
        * Clark: Other tools, like Galaxy, might be heavier lifts due to architectural differences.

### Incubation

* What are the key takeaways from the current incarnation of the HPC Carpentry workshop?

---


## 17:00 EST Session([VTC][zoom_late])

### Attendees

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto, ODU
- Joseph Creech, GW


### Conferences and Outreach

Chatted with Joseph Creech about a possible workshop at PEARC. Joseph and Clark are planning to attend, and are certified instructors.

Asked how we can help? They have some experience from doing a demo at SC24. For their own user community, they've done some "dry runs", they went through HPC Intro in six hours, and didn't quite get through everything, the parallel part was truncated. In conversation, kicked around the idea that a two-day full workshop might be better, Joseph will look into whether PEARC allows that. If they only have one day, they'll probably just do HPC Intro. They'll have to assume the shell as a pre-req and just not do workflow.

Revisited the possibility of ACCESS resources.  Clark mentioned security concerns this morning, we're still not sure what that is.

Also chatted about the possible dollar cost if you just did a one-day workshop on fully commerical public cloud. How much does this actually cost?

Also briefly described our scheduling for ISC.

### HPC Intro Workbench Conversion

Summarized this morning's activity.

### Incubation

No action items.

Question [Wirawan]: Which items should be the first ones we want to advance in the short term?

### Rehash of NIST Blackbird HPC Carpentry workshop

Just completed today (2025-01-16).
Feedback can be seen at: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/blob/feedback/feedback/2025-01-15-blackbird.md .

General impressions:

  * People who attended this workshop were generally experienced users, so they would not appreciate the Unix Shell part of it.
  * 

One way to process the workshop feedback is to write a blog about the workshop!


#### Sub: Analyzing the workshop feedback & survey results

How can we extract the most value out of the feedback (green/red stickies) & survey results?

**BACKGROUND**: As an opportunity to make good work toward fulfilling a subpoint under "4. Teaching", which is "Collect and analyze post-workshop feedback": we can start analyzing our existing feedback (stickies & survey responses) to get a picture of the prevailing feedback, as well as identify the relevant feedback points that are actionable => to improve the lesson right away.

Challenge: How can we do this, given that each site may have different formats, questions, and other types of variations.

---

<!-- Administrata -->

[gcal]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[hpc-cluster]: https://cluster.hpc-carpentry.org

<!--HPC Carpentry Repositories-->
[coordination]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination
[proposals]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/labels/proposal
[hpc-chapel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel
[hpc-intro]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[hpc-parallel]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice
[hpc-python]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python
[hpc-shell]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell
[hpc-workflows]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows

<!--HPC Carpentry Issues-->
[coordination-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues
[hpc-chapel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-chapel/issues
[hpc-intro-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues
[hpc-parallel-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-parallel-novice/issues
[hpc-python-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-python/issues
[hpc-shell-issues]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-shell/issues
[hpc-workflows-issues]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues

<!--Other-->
[genomics-workshop]: https://datacarpentry.org/genomics-workshop/
[nextflow-lesson]: https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/workflows-nextflow/

<!--Carpentries References-->
[conduct]: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html
[invite]: https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/
[ldh]: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/governance/lesson-program-policy.html#lesson-programs
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com

:::info
__Use of this service is restricted to members of The Carpentries community__.

Users are expected to follow our __[Code of Conduct][conduct]__.

All content is publicly available under the [Creative Commons Attribution License][license].
:::

:::danger
__This server is not backed up!__

The Carpentries is not responsible for any data loss.
:::
