---
layout: page
authors: ["Peter Steinbach"]
date: 2018-06-15
url: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc/T116b97f578a0771b/hpccarpentry
tags: ["HPC Carpentry"]
---

# HPCCarpentry

Dear list members,

if you've been to carpentrycon2018 and attended the HPCCarpentry sessions, you
know we have a decently sized community interested in this topic of teaching
the fundamentals of HPC in a Carpentry style. We successfully created several
PRs to https://github.com/swcarpentry/hpc-novice/pulls during CarpentryCon.
Thanks again for this contribution.

In the process of joining the PRs into the repo, an in-depth discussion with
members of ComputeCanada started, about the question if these PRs from above
should also go into https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-intro

As a consequence we had a very long and constructive discussion by mail among
stake holders from Europe, Canada and the US IIRC, which was concluded by a
video conference yesterday. The gist of the VC was, that we decided to NOT
merge your PRs into swcarpentry/hpc-novice but move them into
hpc-carpentry/hpc-intro directly. Christina Koch and I will help making this
happen and start informing the PR submitter soon.

Furthermore, we decided to concentrate all future efforts on contributing to
hpc-carpentry directly. In other words, I will also start contributing material
from my curriculum https://github.com/psteinb/hpc-in-a-day into hpc carpentry.

We hope that this merge of efforts helps HPCCarpentry (or whatever we will call
it) to become a sustainable, joint and open community effort for a long long
time. Individuals outside of ComputeCanada including myself have already become
maintainers for the hpc-carpentry github team and are hence able to help
directly merge PRs.

In the next days, hpc-carpentry has agreed to split some of their lessons, so
that contributing and using the material becomes more adaptive to local
environments and constraints. We also plan to provide a template repo, which
helps people get off the ground when mixing-and-matching material to their
needs.

Feel free to send us your feedback on this. We are planning to put a steering
committee in place in the future, so that feedback can be channeled accordingly
in an efficient way. If you'd like to help and contribute, let us know as well.

For now, stay tuned on this mailing list or the hpc-carpentry repos. I am
extremely happy about this community focus on hpc-carpentry and am looking
forward to fruitful collaborations on the matter.

Best, Peter for the group of volunteers making this happen.
