# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 20 October 2022

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

As the European transition from summer time has not yet occurred this year, the
scheduling is the same as last month.

- [11:00 UTC][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [21:00 UTC][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220421T1100&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination+Hour+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220421T2100&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination+Hour+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/ed08JqSoTsKAGNZdKZY_wA
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/7TllBcdoQy2vPxSY_6mgYQ
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

Not so different from last month. (Not a criticism, we are all busy!)

- Draft a roadmap for HPC to join the Carpentries, at a high level, to inform a
  near-term conversation with the Carpentries folks who were at the break-out.
  Set a target date for this conversation?

  - This exists in embryonic form as
    [Issue #119](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/119) on
    the coordination repo.
  - If we want to do this in the fourth quarter of calendar 2022, to try to
    capture CarpentryCon momentum, then this is becoming urgent. Late November
    and December often have holiday-related scheduling difficulties.

- Complete the goal-revision activity in the [sprints][ccon-sprints] to align
  the episode goals of the lesson with our actual goals for it. (See the "[Room
  1][ccon-room1]" section of the Codi there.) This made considerable progress
  during the sprint, but has stalled a bit.

  - Minor complication, the note is now locked. The info can be usefully
    migrated to the
    [existing issue #15](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/15)
    on the HPC Workflows repo.

- Money! There are a few existing or pending funding opportunities, but we have
  not really engaged with these. How can we use money to further our goals?

  - There was a post to the [Topicbox][topicbox] about the Better Scientific
    Software soliciation. This deadline has passed (it was Sept. 30), but
    possibly it's a useful cue to think about what an HPC Carpentry funding
    proposal would look like?
  - There's some European money that was discussed earlier? I think [name=Alan]
    was connected with it, and it was a bit oblique, but maybe there's an
    opportunity there?
  - [name=Peter] posted the
    [Code for Science & Society | Digital Infrastructure Incubator](https://www.codeforsociety.org/incubator/accepting-proposals)
    call for proposals on
    [slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T/p1666255030302109),
    maybe an opportunity for us?

- There are [notes][ccon-breakout] from the CarpentryCon break-out sesssion,
  which include jumerous points of entry.

- There are also many other Sprints [notes][ccon-sprints] on the [workflow
  lesson][workflow-lesson]

- We should write a blog post for the Carpentries about our general goals and
  aspirations.

---

## 1100 UTC Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor (they/them) Keller, NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Benson Muite, Kichakato Kizito
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), UB/CECAM
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries
- Rohit (he/him) Goswami, University of Iceland / Quansight Labs

### Money and Collaboration

There was an early discussion about collaborative opportunities and maybe also
money. This is the 3rd agenda item, but it came up early.

Generally speaking, it's probably a good idea for us to be aware of other
organizaitons that are focused on training, especially (XSEDE but they hvae a
new name) and PRACE (European XSEDE-like organization) -- these organizations
run workshops, and use Carpentries material.

There's a proposal being prepared now, by way of follow-up to a failed earlier
proposal, for $300K or so, to provide cloud resrouces. If successful, this
would give "us" (Alan, mostly) access to cloud resources, and give us a venue
to improve our cloud-deployment capabilities, and use it to run some workshops.

Also better engagement with training activities at SC and ISC would be good, to
build connections with the people who operate those venues.

Generally speaking HPC is a priority for European organizations, so some orgs
(CECAM, in particular) would like scientists to look at that.

Action: Deliver our content, get some workshops done, to prove that it works,
and increase "mindshare" out there in the world.

Action: Do a survey to get a list of acadmic/research places that could
potentially use HPC carpentry material. Possible questions

- Location(s) of center(s) and primary users
- Typical users and number
- Would they contribute to and/or use HPC Carpentries materials
- Would they consider becoming a carpentries member institution?
  - [name=Toby (from chat)]: FWIW I think Benson's suggestion of a survey could
    be worth doing - based on the snippet library, there clearly exist
    groups/institutes that are more interested in contributing to/benefiting
    from a central, open source resource rather than developing/maintaining
    their own. who knows their motivations for doing so (maybe a survey could
    help answer this question?), but it may extend to other places that are so
    far unaware of HPC Carpentry's existence....

### Joining the Carpentries Roadmap

Soliciting feedback on the issue in the repo?

Idea: Make developing the roadmap the focus of the next co-working meeting.
Next co-working is Nov. 3, so reasonable timing for the meeting would be a week
or so after that, around Nov. 10 or so.

WRT scheduling, Toby says we should meet first with Kari and Erin, just the two
of them -- this simplifies the scheduling, of course, so that's logistically
simplifying.

Side-issue: Many of us recently got PDF certificates from The Carpentries, and
they call out the three sub-units (Software, Library, Data) -- when we join,
will nobody be "certified" to teach our material? This is not the intent of the
certification process, the certificates are not exactly "future-proof" in this
sense. Interacts with the emerging "on-boarding" initiative that the
Carpentries is planning to roll out in the next few months to a year.

Question about the on-boarding: How does the on-boarding material get
presented? Current plan is to do an interactive session with slides that is
presented to on-boardees, but also recorded.

Scheduling: Andrew has complications the week of the 7th, so the week of the
14th is the obvious candidate, and apparently Kari is unavailable from the
15th, so Nov. 14th is our near-term candidate. We will give this a go.

Prepare a COWS (challenges opportunities weaknesses strengths) analysis ahead
of time. Review the Handbook for lesson program development.

### Workflow Revisions

Andrew migrated the CodiMD notes into a
[comment on issue #15](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/15#issuecomment-1284780696).

- Our objectives shortly diverge from the flow of the lesson we forked.

Opportunity: Coordinate with the Carpentries lesson-development workshops,
which will come around again soon. Resembles starting from scratch, but once we
have a skeleton/outline, we could then pull material from the existing fork and
flesh it out from that. Also, participants would get certificates of completion
for lesson development.

---

## 2100 UTC Session

### Attendees:

Just the NIST folks. Adjourned early.
