# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 16 June 2022

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [11:00 UTC][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [21:00 UTC][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220421T1100&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination+Hour+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220421T2100&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination+Hour+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/SNAju8Y5R_aVCbc_pBkbAw
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/AShMw6ARSLGbmE3e4S_RQA
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[big-pr]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/pull/373
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[refactor-pr]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/pull/389

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

- Steering committee
  [elections](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/114) close
  with this meeting. Congratulations and/or condolences!
- The large [PR][big-pr] has now been merged (thanks Trevor!), there is a bit
  of mopping up to do on subsidiary PRs. What (else?) needs to happen to
  declare the [HPC-Intro][intro-lesson] to be "officially" Beta?
  - There are a number of lesson forks we are aware of that have now diverged
    significantly from the incubator repo. Maintaining compatibliity allows
    workshop-specific changes to be merged back to the main repo, and this is
    an important part of how we get a high-quality lesson reflecting the
    experience of many workshops. How can we re-connect with these diverged
    forks?
- We made three submissions to [CarpentryCon](https://2022.carpentrycon.org/),
  as detailed in the [previous co-working][last-cowork]. We should organize
  more detailed preparations for the conference, assuming one or more are
  accepted. The sprint is probably the most complicated, benefitting from close
  contact with the
  [SnakeMake](https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/snakemake-novice-bioinformatics/)
  team.

  - **_Question from the CarpentryCon Team:_**

    > You submitted the proposal below as a resource development sprint, but
    > there were concerns that it might be too specialized for the broader
    > community. It seems there is another related session to provide an
    > introduction but they were wondering if it provides enough information
    > that someone from the community could participate. Or, do you see this as
    > a specialized activity that the HPC subcommunity will be solely
    > supporting? Any additional information/context you can provide would be
    > very helpful.

- A brief
  [strategic plan](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/111)
  was [added](http://www.hpc-carpentry.org/about/) to the [main site][website].
  Feedback welcome.
- It's still useful to discuss our "product suite", with a view to building
  something compatible with the larger Carpentries workshop set-up scheme,
  along the lines in the strategic plan. Establishing scopes for the various
  lesson items would help to guide on-going development.
  - The existing container content presents some challenges, in that it
    includes both Docker and Singularity containers, and is SLURM-specific, but
    it's a reasonable jumping-off point.
  - Additional track ideas, so as not to lose them:
    - Developer track: Shell novice, HPC Intro, Python Intro, then HPC Python
      or another development lesson.
    - Basket of resources: HPC performance analysis, GPU programming, Chapel?
      - Chapel: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/86
- Outreach is still a good idea, it will potentially enlarge our workforce.
  Items from prior discussions whose deadlines have maybe not passed:
  - Near-future [SIGHPC Education](https://sighpceducation.acm.org/events.html)
    events?
    - Best Practices in HPC Training and Education (Tandem with SC?)
    - HPC Education and Training for Emerging Technologies (Tandem with ISC?)
    - Strategies for Enhancing HPC Education and Training (Tandem with PEARC?)
      - Call for proposal:
        https://sighpceducation.acm.org/events/SEHET22_CFP.html
- Should we consider nontraditional or non-academic outreach channels? Guest
  appearances on HPC podcats? Write-ups by HPCWire? Find out the secret
  identity of HPC Guru on twitter?
- Another way to get a larger workforce or to get more work done is to think
  about fundraising. What problems do we have that could be solved with money,
  and where might money come from?

---

## 1100 UTC Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew Reid, NIST (he/him)
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Alan O'Cais, CECAM (he/him)
- Toby Hodges(he/him), The Carpentries
- Benson Muite (he/him), Kichakato Kizito

### Steering Committee Elections

Everyone nominated on the
[election issue](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/114)
received at least five votes, and is elected. The new steering committee
consists of:

- Andrew Reid ([@reid-a](https:/github.com/reid-a/))
- Trevor Keller ([@tkphd](https:/github.com/tkphd/))
- Alan O'Cais ([@ocaisa](https:/github.com/ocaisa/))
- Rohit Goswami ([@HaoZeke](https:/github.com/HaoZeke/))
- Wirawan Purwanto ([@wirawan0](https:/github.com/wirawan0/))
- Annajiat Alim Rasel ([@annajiat](https://github.com/annajiat))

Now we are six!

### Are we at the beta stage yet?

- Is it mostly stable?
- Are we receiving feedback on it?
- [name=Toby]: If we've each taught the lesson _as it is_, and are in a
  position to answer questions from interested instructors about how to prepare
  & teach it?
  - to switch to beta: change the `life_cycle` field in `_config.yml` and
    adjust the _topics_ on your GitHub repository (in the "About" section of
    the repo main page), then tell Toby so he can update some internal
    metadata. (_aside:_ We are planning to develop an "incubot" that will open
    a PR to take care of these changes automatically, when requested.)
- [name=Andrew] and [name=Trevor] are teaching next week:
  https://pages.nist.gov/2022-06-24-nist/

### Divergent Forks

Mike, Wirawan, NeSI, etc. have forks that have diverged to an un-mergeable
state. Can we marshal these and try to re-sync?

### Sprint @CarpentryCon

- not much previous experience with sprints. have heard that they work better
  with a specific, defined goal in mind.
  - [name=Toby]: https://cdh.carpentries.org/lesson-sprint-recommendations.html
    is a (long) list of recommendations we crowd-sourced from the community.
  - Going to have to set very specific goals: tag issues as in-scope, and
    people will have to already know how to modify the lesson and make commits
    (GitHub workflow).
  - It is useful to have this on the calendar, because all of us will have a
    focal point & time set aside to work on this. Potential to find some other
    community members who want to contribute in the long run.
- Unfortunately, the Snakemake devs have not responded to an inquiry about
  participating.

We want to fork the existing lesson (back); what do we want to call it?

- Emphasize the task, not the tool: **_hpc-scaling_**, or **_hpc-workflow_**,
  or **_hpc-scaling-workflow_**?

#### Response?

We plan to set up specific goals & tag them in the repo so people know what's
in-scope. We can also try to steer the Discussion session toward preparation
for the Sprint.

- [name=Toby]:
  - Don't try to make it of general community interest.
  - Link to one of the recommendations: "Fit your sprint into a broader
    community event."
- [name=Alan]: We might need a skeleton fork already in progress so people know
  what to put where.
- [name=Benson]: The Sprint can go from an hour to two weeks. Can we plan to
  discuss the direction for the lesson first to give people context,
  [name=Alan] create a kanban board, then go forth & sprint?
- [name=Andrew] we need to tee up _something_; the whole shebang is too much to
  ask, but devising something achievable during the sprint.
- [name=Benson] suggests four or eight sessions, 1 or 2 hours each split across
  2 weeks. Opening session should be broad, introduce concepts and direction;
  later could be narrower.
- [name=Alan] plans to stand up a virtual cluster so people can actually run
  the code during the sprint. Excellent!

### Outreach

- There was a [Chapel](https://chapel-lang.org/CHIUW2022.html) workshop.
  Unclear if the non-archived HPC Chapel lesson maintainer was present --
  obviously it would be nice to get feedback and have learner engagement to
  improve that lesson.
  - [Proposal to archive **_hpc-chapel_** met with resistance](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/issues/86)
- It would be useful if we had a regular workshop schedule, so that when we are
  doing outreach, we would have a good answer for "When's the next workshop?",
  which is a highly relevant quesitons. Maybe 2x per year, at least?

---

## 2100 UTC Session

### Attendees:

Name (pronouns), affiliation

- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto, ODU

### Steering Committee Elections

See above.

### Is HPC-Intro at Beta stage yet?

No. Morning consensus was, we should do a few rounds of teaching the recent
revisions, including, if possible, the incorporation of the Amdahl example.

And we also need to create a complete lesson program that can constitute a
2-day workshop. What lessons can be part of this program?

### Divergent forks

- Since the earlier session, [name=Alan] has enumerated some interesting
  divergent forks in the
  [Slack](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T/p1655382615709929)
- [name=Wirawan] Plans to blitz his fork and start anew.

### Gathering feedback & stats from teaching HPC carpentry materials

- [name=Andrew] The bigger concern presently is geting a feedback from teaching
  HPC-intro workshops. How to do this? File an
  [issue under hpc-intro](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues/)
  and add a "feedback" label (tag).

- [name=Wirawan] At ODU we heavily customized version of HPC-intro (with a lot
  of specifics to local computing environment). Example from most recent
  workshop:

  Slides used to teach the intro-to-HPC workshop locally at ODU (2022-06-15):
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/15_jwj-kvmiOcOYu4zk55f56j5QAcecs_/view

  Some key differences / divergences:

  - have real workload example (SU2), treated as black-box only to introduce
    the impact of parallelization
  - containerized software (Singularity)
  - getting & analyzing accounting data with `sacct`

#### Recent workshops

Question: What are (recent) workshops teaching HPC-carpentry (or derivatives
thereof) materials?

See the form response of the
["Workshop registration form for HPC Carpentry"](https://www.hpc-carpentry.org/register-workshop/)
here:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16xY1AziEqE11Aq26aMwlyoJgpkibWb0425KFqbchaiE/edit

Might be helpful to promote the response form to solicit records and feedback
from instructors & organizers.

#### Teaching workshops

Is it considered "kosher" to show slides (or the web-based lessons) during ?
The Carpentries' recommended way is to only show the terminal, and make the
learners code-along.

Learners will get lost. We need to support them and plan around getting people
back on track: frequent check-ins and breaks, plenty of helpers, green & red
stickies (or raised hands) to let us know to stop.

### Sprint @CarpentryCon

- [name=Trevor] has shared the correspondence he's had with the organizing
  committee.

### Virtual workshop in July?

There's some interest in running a virtual workshop in July to run the lesson
for & amongst ourselves, possibly using a cloud resource.

### SC'21 BoF

As part of transition to beta, it may be a good exercise to revisit the
feedback points from that BoF, are we addressing them, or do we have good ideas
that we have forgotten (and need to pick up again)?
