# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 20 January 2022

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds coworking hours on the first Thursday,
with two time slots intended to provide adequate coverage for our global
constituency. These two meeting times provide the least-painful coverage for
the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica and aboard a space station
are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [12:00 UTC][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
  - _N.B.:_ Shifted +1 hour for standard time!
- [22:00 UTC][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211202T1200&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coworking+Hour+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211202T2200&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coworking+Hour+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/zkjGLEpDQ2CqTQ5V6bdfuA
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/7udR-kjaTpuf7aDdieYsfw?view
[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[big-pr]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/pull/373

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [Bof Codi][bof-codi]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda:

### On-going: Translating BoF feedback to Issues

#### Milestone Focus

Much of the actionable feedback from the SC21 process has been collected into a
[milestone][sc21-milestone] on the coordination repository.

This collection lacks focus, and in the last coordination meeting, it was
suggested that a good plan would be to focus on the most advanced lessons, and
the templating structure, to meet two near-term goals, making lessons
"stackable" with minimal overlap, and easing the transition to a hoped-for
Carpentries regime, where the people assembling workshops will not necessarily
be lesson developers.

A discussion of the relative priority and ease of use of the issues in the
milestone is invited.

#### HPC Intro Edits

In addition, there is a pending [pull request][big-pr] on HPC Intro that goes a
significant distance towards incorporating shell material into HPC Intro, and
getting us to the point where we can use the Carpentries
[Unix shell](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/) lesson as a direct
prerequisite for HPC Intro.

A joint community review of this PR is probably useful at this point.

---

## Earlier Meeting (Africa, Asia, and Europe)

### Participants

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries
- Annajiat Alim Rasel, BracU
- Benson Muite

### Milestone Focus

The three "Create a _X_ lesson" issues were moved to a new milestone:
[Longer-term SC21 BoF Activites](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2).
_X_ values are containers, Julia, and Dask. These issues reflect BoF feedback,
and are things our community wants, but they're heavier lifts that need more
work and coordination.

### HPC Intro Edits

A lot of the content depends on SSH. A lot of the initial exposure takes place
in Setup, which learners are expected to walk through on their own.

Should we go through SSH keys & agents in the Lesson?  
--> _Yes_! Move this material out of Setup, and dedicate time to teaching it in
the lesson proper.
[#373](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/pull/373).

What about access tokens? This opens the question of site-specific access
issues, which are hard to address in a generic lesson, but may be important.
Consensus of the group is that SSH is the dominant access method, and is the
right thing to do in the lesson.

For sites where this isn't the right answer, we already have site-specific
snippet capabillties, which provides a potential tool for addressing this. It's
possible the variety of access methods might challenge the snippet
architecture, but that's the place to start.

Some sites can use JupyterHub to set up login credentials.

Key propagation may take time. ~~Consider doing the SSH setup immediately?~~
Having more material up front (presentation/jargon-busting) means the first
break should come right after the SSH setup, providing more time for
troubleshooting & key propagation.

Additional challenge to consider: Especially in remote teaching, when
generating keys, at the passphrase entry step, the cursor doesn't move -- this
can confuse learners, who need reassurance that things are actually working.

For learners who cut-and-paste out of an Etherpad or other on-line resource,
they can pick up hidden characters, potentially in e.g. the file name for the
keys, which can make them hard to load afterwards. Troubleshooters should be
alert to this possibility.

---

## Later Meeting (Americas)

### Participants

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Wirawan Purwanto, ODU
- Jayshree Sarma, George Mason U.

### CarpentryCon@Home 2022

[There's a page for it](https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/10/carpentrycon-at-home-2022/),
but it's populated with a lot of 2020 links, so, unclear. We should keep an eye
on that.

### Site-specific customization

Question: How to provide a way to add site-specific customizations at certain
designated spots in a way that would easily allow site-specific info to be
presented?

Current design: snippets libraries. Site customizations should be put in the
snippet files.

- when pull request is submitted, if it is accepted, your site-specific
  snippets will be included -- but you also have to create those files for
  other snippet libraries!
- separate episode ==> if teaching materials that are thematically related, so
  it would make a coherent message that is specific only to a site.
- for materials that are very esoteric, applying only to one site, you can use
  Liquid conditionals to guard against other clusters trying to include the
  snippet -- but this will clutter the lesson files, and should be a last
  resort.

#### Wirawan's Experience

One example from the past, as a way to handle complex customizations that can't
be done well with the snippets facility. _Disclaimer_: The snippet approach is
actually very, very nice, isolating site-specific customizations from the main
lesson meat so that if there are major refactoring, etc, the site-specific
customizations do not cause merge conflicts (or not as bad). But there is one
challenge related to the introduction of a completely different subtopics, or
even an entire episode, which is relevant _only_ for that particular site.

Example: ODU-customized version, based on very old hpc-intro lesson (prior to
the introduction of snippets library).

https://odu-rcs.github.io/hpc-intro/ (**caution**: based on very old
hpc-carpentry lesson that predated snippets library)

Here's the way I handled the situation abovementioned:

- The main HPC Carpentry repo (`hpc-intro` in our case) is treated as upstream.
- ODU maintains a local branch (let's call it `gh-pages-ODU-contrib`) where we
  may work/improve/add materials that can be contributed back upstream. This
  basically is just like a custom branch that is not `gh-pages`, from which we
  should be able to do PR at any time.

- ODU maintains a separate branch forked off `gh-pages-ODU-contrib` (called
  `gh-pages-ODU` in our internal repo), where site-specific customizations
  would occur. These can be: direct modifications on existing episodes, or
  additional episodes. (_Now that we have snippets technology in place,
  customizations on existing episodes should be delegated to additional
  snippets, but there are hooks needed if the additions are not suitable in any
  of the existing snippets_.)

Several use cases for our HPC center are:

- Specific notes on our storage partitions (this can probably be handled using
  snippets, but the ODU-special hooks on the main episodes need to live on
  `gh-pages-ODU`)
- A new episode on the containerized software system deployed by ODU (see our
  wiki page: https://wiki.hpc.odu.edu/Containers/Container-Intro for a quick
  overview). ODU is now using singularity containers pervarsively on our
  cluster. This would have to be a separate episode, dealing exclussively with
  the way to use container on ODU HPC system.

Since these are special cases that do not apply to other HPC centers, these
changes would live on `gh-pages-ODU`.

If ODU wants to contribute updates back upstream, they better live on
`gh-pages-ODU-contrib`. If per chance thoe changes originally lived on our
downstream, then we can do `git cherry-pick` the relevant commits from
`gh-pages-ODU` up to `gh-pages-ODU-contrib` before making a PR.
