# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 15 December 2022

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [13:00 CET][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [17:00 EST][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T13&p1=187&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordinatoin+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T17&p1=250&msg=HPC+Carpentry+Coordination+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9cmxNNdZSZOHkPTqu3PNLQ
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Zj2cW5_CSS-dQ8PKDVDYWA
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics

<!-- comms channels -->

[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hpccarpentry
[topicbox]: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss-hpc
[slack]: https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CEXAZR52T

<!-- useful activity links-->

[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

### The Road To The Carpentries

The plan for this meeting is to continue to follow up on our efforts to draft a
formal request to enter the incubation phase, as described in the curriculum
development [handbook](https://cdh.carpentries.org/).

This is of course a work in progress at our
[working repository](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request) on
Gitlab.

On Nov. 14, several of the steering-committee folks had a very excellent
meeting with Erin Becker, Associate Director of the Carpentries and Membership
Team lead.

The notes from
[that meeting](https://codimd.carpentries.org/h4bbHqmuQcCJ3jDeyUSx6A) are
available.

This meeting's primary agenda item is to complete the report that answers the
questions spelled out in the handbook.

It is worth emphasizing that the level of formality is perhaps lower than you
might guess from just looking at the list -- this process is relatively new,
and we are the first to exercise it, so there will likely be a certain amount
of back-and-forth to ensure that everyone is comfortable with moving forward.

The questions that should be clear from our narrative are repeated here.

> 1. Description of the community that is working on the Lesson Project
> 2. Description of domain knowledge required for instructors to teach the
>    material, so that we can determine to what extent our existing instructor
>    pool may possess these skills and be able to teach these workshops
> 3. Description of the community that the Lesson Project serves with their
>    workshops
> 4. Goals of the Lesson Project
> 5. List of the lessons developed or under development and what a two-day
>    workshop would include, along with access to the materials for Carpentries
>    review
> 6. Information about when and where at least some of the materials have been
>    taught, even if as smaller modules and not yet a full-fledged 2-day
>    workshop
> 7. Assessment information from the teaching events regarding number of
>    attendees and learner feedback about the workshop(s), either using The
>    Carpentries standard surveys or custom survey questions
> 8. How the Lesson Project feels that becoming an official Carpentries Lesson
>    Program will benefit the Lesson Project, The Carpentries, and the broader
>    learning community.

### Other Business

We still have other tasks flying around, these are certainly in scope for this
meeting if time permits.

---

## 1300 CET Session

### Attendees

- Benson Muite, Kichakato Kizito
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST
- Alan O'Cais (he/him), CECAM
- Wirawan Purwanto (he/him), ODU
- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST

### Identifying Community

- Those that attend the coordination/coworking meetings regularly
- Those that attend the coordination/coworking meetings irregularly
- Those who never attend the meetings but forks either contributed

### Identifying Forks

This is
[issue #3](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request/-/issues/3) on
the document repo. Also see
[issue #425 on hpc-intro](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro/issues/425)
repo on interesting forks (started 2022-11-03 by Alan).

- Found a lot of forks with little addition to what's on the main hpc-carpentry
  branch.
- Found four language translations.

Recent PR's from members that are not the core / close to the core members:

- New Zealand group (NESI)
- One more group

TODO: Incorporate this (or reference to do this) to the incubation request
[via Issue #3](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request/-/issues/3)

Do we want to reach out to them?

- Not needed during Carpentry incubation process.
- But we may want to reach out to them at one point in time.
- Initially, we can simply list them as potential contributors in the future?
  But if Carpentries decide that they need to see more active/engaged community
  membership, then we can pursue the engagement with some of these folks.
- Can we inform them that we are undergoing in the Incubator Request process;
  any of them interested to participate at all?
-

#### Draft text for outreach:

_(To be sent to fork owners as an issue on their repo.)_

> Greetings from the The [HPC Carpentry](https://github.com/hpc-carpentry)
> Steering Committee!
>
> We are reaching out to you because this repository is a fork of the
> [HPC Intro lesson](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro). The
> community that maintains your 'upstream' repository is currently involved in
> an effort to become an official lesson program of The Carpentries(tm). We are
> reaching out to various forks in an effort to identify and build a larger and
> more integrated HPC Carpentry community.
>
> Part of this process is to show that the upstream lesson is being used, and
> that there is a pool of potential instructors interested in giving the
> lesson. This is a big part of showing that there is the scope to grow a wider
> community around HPC Carpentry.
>
> In this issue please indicate if someone from your team is interested in
> collaborating in this larger community? Forks like yours can potentially add
> value to the broader HPC Carpentry community by expanding the base of
> instructors, providing feedback on your experience in teaching the material,
> and providing edits to the material through pull requests or issues, as well
> as potential participation in community governance.

##### Discussions

(Trevor) I assume that people who has done a fork of hpc-intro is already a
member of the hpc-carpentry community. (Andrew) If people only do the same
things side-by-side without interactions, that is not quite yet a community.
They need to be talking to each other. (Trevor) Concern over the partitioning
of "us" ("steering committee") and "them" ("everyone else").

##### Outreach process; responding back to this call

(WP) Question: How can they reach out to us? Yes they can respond to their own
issues where we post this request message. But do we want to open an issue
somewhere in the "coordination" repo for people to ping back to us?

- [name=Andrew] I am not expecting to see a lot of responses out of so many who
  . For those who respond, we will keep track of their issues. We want to reach
  out to them where they are.
- [name=Benson] will create the issues on the respective fork repos and keep
  track of responses and keep us (steering committee) informed.

#### Interesting changes

Many of the folks are probably just happy consumers of the lessons.

What contributions can we expect from these fork owners?

- Use of different job schedulers
- Different ways of accessing software
- Interesting images

can't use these (presently):

- Different language translations. This is helpful for the Carpentries
  evaluation process, they are looking for linguistic diversity.

#### History ()

[I-R issue #7](https://gitlab.com/hpc-carpentry/incubation-request/-/issues/7)

Describe what has happened ever since then...

Some references of past landmarks:

- SC'2017 get-together event.
- Peter wrote a paper (https://jocse.org/downloads/jocse-11-1-4.pdf)

---

## 1700 EST Session

### Attendees

- Trevor Keller (they/them), NIST
- Andrew Reid (he/him), NIST

### Notes

Much ado about Amdahl
