# HPCC Coordination Meeting: 15 September 2022

The HPC Carpentries Task Force holds a coordination meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, with two time slots intended to provide adequate
coverage for our global constituency. These two meeting times provide the
least-painful coverage for the six non-polar continents. Folks in Antarctica
and aboard a space station are invited to join whichever is most convenient.

- [11:00 UTC][earlier] &mdash; better for Africa, Asia, and Europe
- [21:00 UTC][evening] &mdash; better for the Americas and Oceania

A Google calendar has been set up to capture these events, available
[online][gcal] and for [download][ical] for your calendar app.

<!-- Info & Callback links -->

[meet]: https://meet.google.com/gez-aeui-jdx
[phone]: https://tel.meet/gez-aeui-jdx?hs=5
[earlier]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220421T1100&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination+Hour+1
[evening]:
  https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220421T2100&msg=HPC+Carpentries+Coordination+Hour+2
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/La1osSoxQt6sCQ824f4_OA
[last-cowork]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/53bKz2l5Q0SrDIuGVdVaJQ
[last-coord]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/RJ5BLL3rSn6SLL92nKCc-w
[gcal]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/?cid=bWp0ZWh0ZmEycmVjZGZtNmZjdGUwMWVhdGNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ
[ical]:
  https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/mjtehtfa2recdfm6fcte01eatc%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[website]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/hpc-carpentry.github.io
[bof-codi]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/9-Y8OaVIT2qpb_P47TR7Lw?view
[minutes]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/tree/main/minutes
[sc21-milestone]: https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/1
[sc21-milestone-long]:
  https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/coordination/milestone/2
[intro-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro
[workflow-lesson]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows
[ccon-breakout]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA
[ccon-room1]:
  https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw#Room-1---locating-Snakemakeworkflow-concepts-in-existing-lesson-content
[ccon-sprints]: https://codimd.carpentries.org/hXwa7RTnRSirzvzwTDfeJw

## VTC: **_[Click here to join!][meet]_**

Both meetings will use [Google Meet][meet]. You may also call in by [phone].

#### Previous Meetings for Reference

- [Previous Coordination Meeting][last-coord]
- [Previous Coworking Hour][last-cowork]
- [SC'21 BoF Notes][bof-codi]
  - Milestones (issue lists), both [Near-term][sc21-milestone] and
    [Long][sc21-milestone-long]
- [Archive of old Minutes][minutes]

---

## Agenda

More follow-up from CarpentryCon!

We have some pending to-do items:

- Draft a roadmap for HPC to join the Carpentries, at a high level, to inform a
  near-term conversation with the Carpentries folks who were at the break-out.
  Set a target date for this conversation?

- Complete the goal-revision activity in the [sprints][ccon-sprints] to align
  the episode goals of the lesson with our actual goals for it. (See the ["Room
  1"][ccon-room1] section of the Codi there.) This made considerable progress
  during the sprint, but has stalled a bit.

- There are [notes][ccon-breakout] from the break-out sesssion, which include
  numerous points of entry.

- There are also many other Sprints [notes][ccon-sprints] on the [workflow
  lesson][workflow-lesson]

- We should write a blog post for the Carpentries.

- Peter Steinbach reached out to find Snakemake mentors for
  [LEAP](https://notes.desy.de/mpfORsdPSoeA7KSLs4DIYQ?view)

---

## 1100 UTC Session

### Attendees:

- Trevor (they/them) Keller, NIST
- Toby (he/him) Hodges, The Carpentries
- Andrew (he/him) Reid, NIST
- Wirawan (he/him) Purwanto, Old Dominion U.
- Benson (he/him) Muite, Kichakato Kizito

### On Joining the Carpentries

[Etherpad with notes from the CarpentryCon breakout discussion](https://codimd.carpentries.org/Epr50mepQ-WWNsLA1M1UlA)

We should start a planning document of some kind (on Codi, ?) outlining what we
plan... this will help identify what pieces of the puzzle are already in place,
and where we need to focus our efforts.

- "trainee-to-trainer" pipeline in order for this to scale
- self-sustaining community of developers, teachers, instructors
- good content (workshops, roadmaps/strategic documents)
- assessment of snippet library maintenance & path forward with the new
  Carpentries site templates
- integration of our lesson program with Instructor Training

> Location of draft: https://codimd.carpentries.org/kNn99YfeQRGAoppHhYKXsQ?edit

Who will help us draft-up the roadmap (for joining the Carpentries)?

- Frame & scope the dialog that starts soon, and continues through HPC joining
  The Carpentries
- Need more of the "driving people"!
  - invite people who can have the sense of ownership of making this document
    happen
  - outline the document to help engage/explain what we're asking them to
    participate in
  - how about people who have been teaching HPC Carpentry and/or contributed
    snippets -- host a call to discuss experiences using the material
    - Andy Turner
    - Christina Koch
    - Megan Guidry
    - Ashwin Srinath (?)--was at Clemson, maybe now at NVIDIA developing
      RAPIDS?
    - Peter Steinbach
    - Alex Razoumov (Chapel lesson maintainer)
  - ... if nobody who's been teaching the material participates at this stage,
    that's a bad sign for our "community"

Outline of roadmap: "trainees to trainers"

- Process to familiarizing interested people ("trainees") to HPC Carpentry
  specific stuff (e.g. snippets library)
  - "instructor onboarding document" or video: what it is, what it's important
    for the curriculum to get across
  - from learners to helpers to instructors
  - cf some videos on Carpentries' YouTube channel on this stuff
- Shared understanding of the goals & scope
- In Software Carpentries workshop, Instructors kick things off by introducing
  SWC and seeding the idea that there is this larger effort that welcomes
  people interested in crafting & teaching material. Setting this in motion
  requires a few minutes of Instructors' time & enthusiasm at the beginning,
  and takes months/years to build momentum.
- Start building up the roadmap in broad strokes first, so that we have
  something to show Carpentries exec committee, etc.

"Mountain of engagement" form Mozilla open leadership:

- Consider what needs to take place at increasing level of engagement
- "What is possible" with HPCC: Empowering people to be able to teach HPC
  carpentry on their own. E.g. where they can conduct the teaching: could be
  cloud resources, or,
- Have onboarding materials to bridge technical gaps to allow the "soft skills"
  to be more portable.
- Overcoming reluctance of instructors in teaching materials not familiar with
  them? But the Carpentries community does not expect people to teach all
  existing materials bcs it is a lot to ask. But the Carpentries lessons are
  there to help ease someone who desires to teach these topics.

Additional thoughts:

- [name=Benson] Anyone with Linux or sysadmin experience should be able to pick
  up the material (to teach). Some basic programming experience also helps.
- [name=Benson] Usually I help out with a workshp before teaching it. This has
  been usually OK. Typically you want to be with / see someone with experience
  of the materials if you have not taught them before.

Consider additional phenomena: Lesson divergence

- Lesson divergence (e.g. reformatted & customized in other fashion), e.g. as
  slides instead of standard Carpentries way, or as poor git hygiene which
  prevents merging upstream .
  - Can we help these people to contribute back? I.e. how to overcome "poor git
    hygiene".
- Lesson divergence maybe something we need to deal with in short-/mid-term
- Potential contributors need to figure out on their own how to "straighten up"
  their git household so they can merge in.
  - It is not our place to train people Git.
  - But we do want to help people in the right direction.
  - Case in point where people straightened up on their own: Birmingham
    snippets library.

How important is snippet library to HPCC success?

- A kind of "window dressing" to make people feel "at home" with the
  lessons---matching their own environment.
- A sign of diversity of HPC envs out there.
- Be aware this could be a "headache" in the future as an additional
  maintenance item. Each contributor to a snippet set _is_ also a maintainer.

### On Sprint

Go through the existing version of our lessons and review the goals of the
lessons: do they match our goals?

We want to focus on one single rule Snakemake file. Explain adequately what a
"rule" is. Explain that a rule is stateful.

- Demonstrate what happens when the Snakefile is newer than the existing
  output: when will the rule trigger? Why?
- Notes are about halfway through the lesson.

### On blog post

On our CarpentryCon sessions:

- Lighting talks
- Breakout session
- Sprint

### On Setting up Amdahl code

Consensus: Use "pip install" + local conda env to help isolate the
requirements, etc.

- Conda brings a lot of extra files. I do not know if this is significantly
  different than virtual env. CSC in Finland actively discourages conda on HPC
  systems. <https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/hpc-workflows/issues/18>
  but ok to stay with it to introduce the topic, though some HPC facilities may
  suggest things other than conda. A number of projects write their own
  workflow engines.

---

## 2100 UTC Session

### Attendees:

- Andrew (he/him) Reid, NIST
- Trevor (they/them) Keller, NIST
- Rohit (he/him) Goswami, University of Iceland / Quansight Labs

### Notes?

Some debate on `pip` installs for Amdahl...

An issue with `pip` might be inadvertent clobbering of existing `--local`
installs, especially when users set/manipulate `PYTHONPATH` often.

The "right" solution is to install Amdahl in a virtual or conda environment,
but that's a lot of scope creep. Instead, recommend printing the PYTHONPATH and
discussing which Python was used to `python3 -m pip install --local amdahl`,
and teaching learners to check that the same Python module is loaded when they
want to run `amdahl`.

One of the issues with `git` based fragmentation is even if we accept changes
manually, it makes it difficult for the downstream projects to pull upstream.
An approach which might eventually help is a `stable/development` branching
workflow where one is basically only meant to track upstream and to-be-merged
upstream changes. These can then be used to be `rebased` onto when changes are
made upstream.

For the billing complexities which might be customized for each cluster, and
this might be handled by the snippet library system. However, as discussed,
this is more a teaching practice issue, some instructors wouldn't be
comfortable fiddling with all the knobs on the site all the time.
